Taiwan enterprises told to embrace more business chances on mainland 
2019-12-12
A CHINESE mainland official has said that the mainland welcomes Taiwan enterprises to seize the opportunities in the mainland market to improve their capabilities in technological innovation and market competitiveness.
“We treat Taiwan enterprises equally in mainland projects including the development of key facilities and the construction of technical centers for enterprises,” said Zheng Chiping, deputy head of the foreign investment department of the National Development and Reform Commission, at a press conference of the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office yesterday.
To facilitate the high-quality development of the manufacturing industry on the mainland, a series of policies and measures have been put in place to support all sorts of market players in capitalizing on their advantages.
So far, the NDRC, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology and other authorities have validated 25 batches of national enterprise technology centers and 110 state-level industrial design centers, with more efforts on key technology facilities, industrial innovation and engineering research projects underway, according to Zheng.
Some Taiwan enterprises are already a step ahead by participating in such projects, enjoying favorable policies such as those that grant them full value-added tax refunds, he said.
“We welcome more Taiwan enterprises to get in touch with local authorities and lead or participate in mainland projects, so as to fully seize the development opportunities in the vast mainland market,” Zheng said.
“The main consideration (of the measures) is to provide more development opportunities and equal treatment for Taiwan compatriots and enterprises, and further promote Taiwan enterprises’ participation in mainland’s high-quality development and high-tech innovation,” said Chen Binhua, deputy director of the Department of Economy of State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, “and help Taiwan enterprises accelerate technological innovation, reduce comprehensive costs, seize development opportunities and achieve better development.”
The 13 measures can be characterized with three major points. First, the measures are close to economic and social development. For example, the second measure said the cooperation between the mainland and Taiwan will be supported, and Taiwan enterprises are welcomed to participate in mainland’s 5G construction, Chen said.
Second, the measures react to what Taiwan enterprises mainly care about. According to the eighth measure, the mainland will give solutions to the difficulties that Taiwan enterprises face in financing and raising funds.
Lastly, compared with the “31 measures” released last year, the new measures are more high-quality. The first measure said the mainland will support Taiwan enterprises to participate in major technical equipment building, and help them accelerate technological innovation.
