Philips’ health continuum fits for the future 
2019-11-05
Visitors of the China International Import Expo (CIIE) will have the opportunity to access the latest products and services across the health continuum at the Royal Philips stand again this year.
The booth covers the integration of B2B (business to business) and B2C businesses (business to consumer) and represents the world’s leading technologies of diagnostic imaging and artificial intelligence in the health care industry with its innovative solutions across the health continuum. As a leading global health technology company, Philips is one of the largest exhibitors in the medical equipment and healthcare zone. Attendance at the CIIE represents the long-term commitment of Philips. 
As Philips CEO Frans van Houten noted: “At Philips, we’re committed to making the world healthier and more sustainable, and we are on a mission to improve the lives of three billion people a year by 2030. China plays a very important role in this. We are fully behind the ‘Healthy China 2030’ initiative by providing health technology solutions to address the Quadruple Aim: an improved experience for patients and staff, better health outcomes and a lower cost of care. As we like to say: In China, for China, and with China.” 
With a rapidly growing disease burden from an aging population, China’s healthcare system is ripe for innovation. From established corporations to fledgling startups — all recognize the potential for digital technologies such as tele-health and AI to alleviate China’s overstretched healthcare professionals and provide better care. In fact, the 2019 Future Health Index from Philips, which surveyed healthcare professionals in 15 countries, shows that China is leading the way in adoption of digital health technology.
“To help make China’s healthcare system fit for the future, I believe that global health technology companies need to rethink the traditional model of importing medical products developed in Western markets. Today, the key to successful innovation lies in having a deep understanding of market-specific needs and challenges, and the ability to forge local partnerships — while also keeping an eye on best practices in other healthcare systems. In other words, by combining a local and a global mindset,” said van Houten.
“China is the second largest market of Philips and our development strategy in China is closely aligned with the ‘Healthy China 2030’ initiative. We are committed to bringing the innovation and resources of the global platform to China, and are closely integrated with local insights and closely cooperated with the ‘local ecosystem.’ According to China’s actual clinical needs, we will bring a truly ‘localized’ solution to enhance the value of China’s health care system,” said Andy Ho, member of the Executive Committee, Royal Philips and president of China  
At the CIIE, Philips, as a health care technology firm, will demonstrate individual products for consumers integrating personal health and professional medical care, which plays an essential role in the aging society. “At Philips we believe there’s always a way to make life better. We help people to sleep, eat, look, feel and care better. We empower people to lead happy and healthy lives. And we do this in an increasingly personalized way: consumers are asking for it, demographic developments demand it and technology enables it,” said Ho.
The spotlights include Dream Family, a smart solution that connects doctors with patients for better sleep and breathing, based on Philips’ research in sleep and respiratory care. Other consumer-oriented products include Philips’ Sonicare electric toothbrush for oral health, Philips’ 7000 Series electric shaver featuring the world’s first AI driver and built-in sensor for customized shaving and Philips’ 8000 Series air purifier.
Philips also pioneers the utilization of AI, digital imaging systems and connected informatics to welcome the age of precision medicine.
At Philips’ booth, visitors can experience its digital imaging systems, AI-based software and services that are intended to improve image quality, streamline workflows, enable seamless healthcare and enhance patient experience. Highlights include the Azurion platform, as the core of Philips overall imaging guided treatment solution to better serve the rapidly growing interventional minimally invasive therapy market in China, and Lumify, IQon Spectral CT, Ingenia CX and VEREOS PET/CT. The ultimate goal is to give radiologists a high-quality image on one scan, offering simplified and accurate diagnostic pathways, even in extremely challenging circumstances involving complicated cases. With features of efficient calculation and accurate analysis and decision-making, transforming “data” into “insight,” clinicians, hospital administrators, patients and health professionals can achieve better health outcomes at lower cost. 
Philips recently announced the publication of its Future Health Index (FHI) 2019 report. The report reflects independent research, commissioned by Philips, of what is required to accelerate the shift from volume-based to value-based care in the global drive for sustainable health-care systems.
Philips is a positive innovation practitioner in the field of medical IoT and 5G. Its business portfolio covers the entire process of health care and rich technical and intellectual property. They have laid a strong foundation to promote the development of medical IoT in the 5G era and create a seamless and interconnected health-care ecosystem.
With the advent of the 5G era, Philips focuses on 5G applications in remote monitoring, precision indoor and outdoor positioning, communication, connectivity and remote intervention, focusing on 5G applications in hospitals, homes and emergency scenarios. They include cardiac arrest public emergencies, remote ultrasound application, 7/24 patient monitoring, maternal and child care and home care for aged people. These will also be presented at Philips’ CIIE booth this year.
