Property market stable in August 
2019-09-18
China’s residential property market maintained stability in August with new home prices in all-tiered cities recording either the same or slower growth, the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday.
In the four gateway cities, new home prices climbed an average of 0.3 percent from July, unchanged from a month ago, according to the bureau, which monitors home prices in 70 cities around the country.
In particular, new home prices in Beijing and Shanghai rose 0.5 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively, and gained 0.2 percent in both Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
In the pre-occupied housing market, prices in the four cities remained flat from a month ago, compared with a 0.3 percent increase in July. They were down 0.4 percent in Beijing, up 0.2 percent in Shenzhen and remained unchanged in Shanghai and Guangzhou, the bureau’s data showed.
In 31 second-tier cities, new home prices rose an average 0.5 percent, easing from the 0.7 percent increase recorded in July. Prices of existing homes, meanwhile, edged up 0.2 percent, compared with a 0.4 percent gain in the previous month.
As for the 35 third-tier cities monitored by the bureau, new home prices advanced at the same pace of 0.7 percent as in July, while existing home prices climbed 0.8 percent from a month ago, faster than July’s 0.7 percent growth.
“August is the traditional off-season for property sales and that’s why we have seen an increased number of cities recording month-over-month price declines in the new housing market,” said Lu Wenxi, senior manager of research at Shanghai Centaline Property Consultants Co. “In the existing home market, which usually better reflects overall momentum in the residential market, the number of cities registering price decreases remained unchanged from July but more notable declines were found compared with the new home market.”
In August, 10 cities registered a month-over-month new home price decrease, compared with three in July. In the pre-occupied housing market, the number of cities seeing prices retreat from a month ago remained unchanged at 20, with the largest setback of 1 percent.
Across the country, new home price in Tangshan, Hebei Province, witnessed the biggest month-on-month increase of 1.9 percent.
On a year-on-year basis, prices of new homes in all-tiered cities continued to rise at a slower pace in August. They added 4.2 percent, 9.9 percent and 9 percent, respectively, in first-, second- and third-tier cities. In pre-occupied residential market, they fell 0.2 percent, gained 5.5 percent and 5.8 percent, respectively, from the same period a year ago. 
