All eyes on 5G tech at CIIF this year 
2019-09-18
MORE than 2,600 exhibitors, including many of the world’s biggest tech firms, are attending this year’s China International Industry Fair, an annual event which opened in Shanghai yesterday.
5G technology is the highlight of this year’s fair.
China Mobile, the world’s biggest mobile carrier, is displaying its latest 5G-powered applications, covering urban management, virtual reality, robotics and other sectors.
5G-connected sensors are now installed in tunnels and bridges in Shanghai for real-time monitoring and safety purposes. Meanwhile, a 5G-connected robot is interacting with visitors at several CIIF booths.
In 2019, 10,000 5G base stations will cover the whole downtown Shanghai.
The city will spend 30 billion yuan (US$4.4 billion) to build 30,000 5G base stations by 2021, offering full 5G coverage.
With new technologies such as 5G and AI, navigation and smart driving services will benefit greatly, industry officials said during the CIIF.
The positioning accuracy of these technologies is within centimeters now, compared with meters previously, which will boost various mapping and smart driving applications, said Shanghai-based CHC Navigation.
CHC Navigation now supports the China-developed Beidou Navigation System.
Leading robot producers — ABB, FANUC, YASKAWA and KUKA — will show off the latest in robotic applications.
James Li, Lead Business Manager, ABB Robotics & Discrete Automation in China, says the trend of mass customization in the manufacturing industry is inevitable and ABB will use the CIIF to show how it can take part in this trend.
“The logistics industry is also a big market for ABB, we have solutions for it and ABB will enhance its role in the logistics industry,” Li expressed.
Other firms are bringing liveliness to commuters on Metro. China Railroad Rolling Stock Corp is showcasing its Cetrovo carriage whose windows can become large tablets for passengers to use.
A model of the train is on show at the Innovative Sci-Tech Pavilion, while the real one is under trial in Guangzhou in Guangdong Province.
Cetrovo is a combination of high-end manufacturing and green energy. Using carbon fiber body and frame, the train is 13 percent or more lighter than a normal one.
