It’s all about innovation and creativity 
2019-09-26
INNOVATIVE products and new ideas will be a hallmark of the second China International Import Expo, according to leading companies.
Felix Gutsche, president and CEO of Boehringer Ingelheim in China, explained that its theme at the CIIE this year will be bringing innovation to China as it would represent its four business sectors, human medicine, animal disease treatment, biopharmaceutical and rehabilitation center.
“We have new ideas on stroke management and innovative solutions for animal health, and we’ll also be showing our R&D and clinical development activities in China,” he said.
Innovation matches government policies and market trends, he said, and the company’s total stroke solution, covering not only prevention but also treatment and rehabilitation, will be an example of driving local innovation while integrated health management and digital solutions for animal health will also be a highlight during the fair.
“We have our strongest footprint here in Shanghai with not only regional headquarters but also pharma plants and a rehabilitation center and we intend to increase investment here in this key hub,” he said.
“It’s a fantastic opportunity to show what companies like Boehringer Ingelheim can offer here and as China has taken a fast development step toward the advancement of health care, we also want to learn how we can leverage this fast development pace.”
US laboratory equipment provider ThermoFisher will be at the event for the second year, and is bringing around 40 products, among which 13 are new to China. China is the NYSE-listed company’s fastest-growing market, and its second-largest outside the US.
Tony Acciarito, the company’s president, said its 400 square meters of exhibition space will be dedicated to health care, biologics, food safety and environmental detection.
“We continue to invest as we did in more than 35 years of presence here and China remains a strategic focus with new facilities, new products, new labs and commitment to local customers,” Acciarito said. “We’re very proud to present for the second time at the CIIE which is another example to continue to show our commitment to China.”
In the interactive exhibition zone it will showcase reproductive health care, oncology testing and diagnosis and therapeutic biological products to show how its laboratory testing technologies and services are helping expedite drug discovery and development.
French cosmetics giant L’Oreal said it will be in the newly established 6.2H High-End Consumer Goods exhibition hall this year apart from continuing to exhibit in the 6.1H Consumer Goods Expo area.
“We will bring together more than 20 brands and over 1,000 high-quality imported products from three continents and six countries in order to give Chinese consumers a high-tech, immersive and sustainable consumption experience at our booth,” said L’Oreal China CEO Fabrice Megarbane.
Apart from launching new brands in China, L’Oreal will also display twice as many imported products as it did at the first CIIE, and also debut skin-care product customization technology in China.
Besides beauty products and the experience offered by premium brands such as Giorgio Armani Beauty, Lancome and Yves Saint Laurent Beauty, the company will also bring cutting-edge beauty technology services and applications.
“Consumption is the primary driver of China’s development, and the engine behind this is not only China’s determination to go forward with its reform and opening-up efforts, but also the desire of every Chinese consumer for a better life,” he said.
Drugmaker MSD will also be present at the expo with 800 square meters of exhibition space to show key milestones in its development in China.
