Hongqiao bonded logistics center launched 
2019-09-26
THE bonded logistics center in the Hongqiao Central Business District was launched yesterday as a platform offering “6+365 days” one-stop trading services to support the China International Import Expo.
A batch of foreign companies signed agreements to bring imported products to the center.
The day also marked the 40-day countdown to the start of the second CIIE on November 5.
The Type B Bonded Logistics Center covers an area of over 50,000 square meters. It aims to serve as a distribution center for imported commodities and to expand the spillover effect of the import expo.
Shanghai Vice Mayor Xu Kunlin unveiled a plaque.
He said the center should attract buyers in the city and from the Yangtze River Delta region to further promote the Shanghai Shopping brand and integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta.
Orient International Group, one of the major operators of the bonded logistics center, said it will focus on promoting the spillover effect of the CIIE, the new bonded exhibition and trade mode, and the “first store economy” (which is aimed at attracting more domestic and foreign enterprises to choose Shanghai as the site for their first stores in China). The aim is to develop the center as a new shopping heartland for imported goods.
The center is constructed and operated by the Orient International Group, Shanghai Land Group, Bright Food Group, Donghao Lansheng Group, Bailian Group and Shanghai South Hongqiao Group.
Also yesterday, a support event was held on the them of “expanding the spillover effect of the CIIE and promoting the integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta.”
Government authorities of various Shanghai districts and some nearby cities shared the progress they’ve made and their plans for future development.
Wu Bin, deputy director of the Minhang District government, said the district is the core area of Shanghai’s southern sci-tech innovation center.
It has promoted 53 foreign companies in the district to register for the second CIIE as exhibitors, and 64 companies will attend the expo as buyers, with an estimated over US$1 billion contribution to the total turnover.
