A hub of cutting-edge technology 
2019-11-01
EXHIBITS at the second China International Import Expo, due to run from November 5 to 10 in Shanghai, has attracted huge attention.
This year’s event has a total exhibition area of 360,000 square meters, up from 300,000 square meters last year.
The larger space has allowed companies to bring more innovative products to the venue and to show more quality services. We have highlighted a few to give a taste of the cutting-edge technologies related to our daily lives. Later on, Shanghai Daily reporters will visit the exhibition areas and take a closer look.
A high-speed patrol boat from Italian company Ferretti, named the Model 195 boat, is making its Asian debut. The craft is 20 meters long, weighs around 37 tons and is constructed from the latest hi-tech materials, such as carbon and titanium. It can reach 55 knots with a range of over 845 kilometers.
The boat is from Ferretti Security Division, a part of the Ferretti Group.
The security division specializes in the design, production and sale of state-of-the-art naval platforms for security applications, supporting navies, the coast guard, police and patrol forces around the world.
The Ferretti Group, established in Italy in 1968, is involved in the design, construction and sale of motor yachts and pleasure crafts.
The boat was transported in two sections on two semi-trailers. Two 80-ton vehicles took around five hours to complete unloading and assembly.
Mars' chocolate brand M&M is to showcase its M&M’s Color Works brand and allow consumers to select chocolate beans with different colors, based on their personal preferences, and mix them up in a colorful M&M’s cup.
The self-service vending machine also comes with a built-in membership system which offers customized information, tailor-made to benefit chocolate lovers all over the world.
A Digital Scent Shelf is another intelligent device that uses a smart algorithm to decode the scent of products so consumers can experience how new flavors taste before making a purchase decision.
The smart shelf uses artificial intelligence and a wearable smart device to offer a gum and mint product recommendations to consumers, by putting them in an immersive environment to be fully exposed to new flavors such as lychee, rose or jasmine, offering them a unique shopping experience.
This year Deloitte will focus on the theme—Make Your Impact, Connect With Us, an updated 2.0 version of Digital Difference from last year.
Focusing on the hot topics of Smart City & Smart Mobility, Cyber Security, Emerging Technology and Future of Work, Deloitte will showcase more than 40 innovative assets and solutions to demonstrate its cutting-edge service capabilities.
The Smart Cities and Analytics touchscreen wall is a free-standing, touch-enabled wall. The wall tells a city and business story involving projector animations and graphics to engage users for up to 10 minutes. Engagement is largely self-explanatory, allowing multiple people to engage with different elements and content levels at the same time. Users can take content from the wall via QR codes or other downloads.
In the science field, Olympus has focused on life science research demands. The company is to demonstrate the BX53 LED microscope system, as well as the DP27 microscope digital camera, to assist life science researchers to discover and record the micro world.
With the help of Olympus’ advanced imaging technology, it can realize the synthesis of fine images, or the combination of the images, which can help technologists to observe a clearer microscopic world. This is crucial to scientific research.
The IH cooking table, designed by Miji, is a fascinating blend of cooking and social interaction.
Miji, the world’s leading electric cooker brand, will debut its latest IH cooking table (Star 5 Panaroma) at the CIIE. Although it looks like a dining table, the table is equipped a state-of-the-art fifth-generation IH heating module inside. It can boil one liter of water in 90 seconds, significantly shortening cooking time while reducing electricity consumption. Schott glass ceramics are applied to the table panel, which can withstand temperature changes up to 710 degrees Celsius.
It supports different cooking methods in its extra-large heating area and can heat up the cookware via automatic recognition of the cookware size to save energy. There’s also a heat preservation function at both sides of product, so you don’t need to worry that the food will cool down in winter.
