SABIC at the vanguard of sustainable development 
2019-08-30
The problem of waste disposal, especially in relation to plastic waste, has arisen to prominence due to waste sorting ­— a newly enforced regulation in Shanghai. Consistent in exploring and promoting circular economy, SABIC — a global leader in diversified chemicals — is fully utilizing its expertise of sustainable development in China to elevate the practice of plastic sorting. 
With its know-how on plastics, 30+ years of experience as a growth partner for China and its solid footprint, consisting of its Technology Center, JV, compounding plants and offices across the country, SABIC is focusing first on plastic waste. 
Plastics have helped improve living standards, hygiene and nutrition around the world, especially in developing countries, and brought about many of the conveniences of modern life. But it would be unwise to deny the fact that unrecycled and dumped plastics have become a global environmental challenge.
China is among the five countries that has been found to cause 80 percent of ocean plastic waste, along with Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. 
The time has come to address this problem, and SABIC, at the forefront of this movement, has introduced International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) certified circular polymers, produced from recycled plastic waste to combat it.
At present, three of SABIC’s major customers — Unilever, Vinventions and Walki Group — have decided to accept the use of innovative polymers in their packaging for food, beverages and personal & home care products, recognizing the environmental value that the polymer offers.
“Plastic recycling, whether it is chemical recycling or physical recycling, can greatly reduce energy consumption. Currently, seventy percent of energy used by China comes from abroad, and thus, cutting down energy consumption and emissions is a must,” said Li Lei, Vice President and Regional Head, North Asia, SABIC.
“To be frank, the chemical industry is a large energy consumer. It is our responsibility to take the lead in reducing energy consumption.”
SABIC is taking the lead to mobilize the whole value chain to address the plastic waste problem. Back in January, SABIC became a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste. Together with other global companies across the value chain, from material suppliers to end users, SABIC founded the Alliance — a new dedicated organization consisting of 27 global companies — to advance solutions that help reduce mismanaged plastic waste in the environment.
The Alliance will help eliminate environmental plastic waste and will drive progress in four key areas over the next five years: infrastructure, innovation, education and the cleaning up of waste-concentrated areas.
Addressing the grand issue of sustainability, requires participation and long-term commitment from all aspects of society, including consumers, manufacturers, technology developers, retailers, the finance community, government and civil society. 
As the community with a shared future for mankind is being increasingly connected, no one country, company nor individual can manage alone or stand aloof, which is a firm stance of SABIC.
Coinciding with this stance SABIC is actively enhancing awareness on environmental protection and sustainable development to the public.
SABIC recently introduced its new corporate social responsibility (CSR) program “Waste-free Environments” in China, to show the public how waste can be recycled and given value based on various applications.
Besides this program, SABIC also implements global CSR programs such as “Lights of Our Future” and “Back to School”.
On this, Li Lei said, “We highly value the future of the next generation, and we are striving to impart in them more positive knowledge and guidance, so that they can better deal with all the effects from their external environment and avoid detours during their growth.”
In the eyes of Li Lei, a waste-free environment can become a reality only when everyone acts. Chemistry is a part of everybody’s day-to-day lives; 90 percent of the things you see, touch and use come from chemistry. 
It is vital for all of us to gain better understanding of this, and to SABIC, the very notion of Chemistry that Matters™ not only refers chemical reactions, but also the chemistry between people and their emotional connections. 
And only when chemistry between the whole of society occurs, will a powerful reaction allow us to unleash our potential and create a bright future for our future generations.
