Flexible working to ensure diversity 
2019-05-30
Flexible working is a highly effective tool for achieving better diversity and it should be implemented early in the recruitment stage, according to global recruitment firm Hays.
Historically, flexible working has been the domain of mothers balancing childcare with returning to work or a privilege which is earned through hard work and company loyalty, rather than an optional working practice, said Sandra Henke, group head of People and Culture at Hays.
In order to achieve true inclusion within a business, flexibility must be offered to all employees and creating “family-friendly” policies in place of “female-friendly” policies will help to break down bias, the company said.
The sooner businesses move away from it solely being “a gender issue” and more of “a business issue,” the better it will be to help businesses to solve the issue, Hays noted.
According to recruitment experts, to ensure flexible working options and achieve a diverse workforce, organizations need to invest in effective communication of different working practices.
Organizations which embrace more agile working practices will give themselves greater employee engagement and retention as well as the advantage of a wider talent pool to choose from. 
A diverse and inclusive organization will offer flexible working at the point of hire rather than later in employment.
The senior management and business leaders need to be properly informed about what their organization can offer, actively promote it to professionals and where possible, lead by example themselves, Hays emphasized.
“At Hays, we believe the right job can transform a person’s life and the right person can transform a business,” said Henke. “By excluding members of the workforce, organizations are not only limiting the potential pool of workers they can choose from but also the diversity of thought.”
A balanced, well-managed team can deliver huge benefits to a business. It can strengthen the foundations for a broader talent pool and encourage the creation and exchange of fresh ideas and experiences between colleagues and customers. 
