Recruitment of talent, technology and research are high on mayor’s agenda 
2019-01-29
SHANGHAI aims to further promote high-quality economic development in 2019, Shanghai Mayor Ying Yong told the meeting.
The city’s mayor said that Shanghai’s economic and social development remained steady in 2018, with a better economic structure, improved economic effectiveness, as well as coordinated and sustainable high-quality development.
Ying said more work should be done to keep economic development healthy this year.
“Efforts should be made to improve urban economic density and input-output efficiency, and enhance the ability to innovate,” Ying said.
“Shanghai will further enhance the vitality of micro entities, reduce burdens on market entities and improve the business environment.”
The topics discussed covered talent recruitment, research and innovation, science and technology and other areas to further boost high-quality economic development.
The city’s political advisers said it is important to improve the city’s competitiveness by gathering and cultivating talent. Members suggested setting up a platform, and enhancing talent cooperation with other cities around the world.
Xu Dazhen, vice president of the Shanghai Federation of Returned Overseas Chinese, said that Shanghai’s economic development provides huge opportunities for overseas Chinese returning home to participate in national strategies and the city’s development.
Xu suggested that a one-stop government service platform could also provide services for overseas talent.
The major concerns of Chinese who have returned from overseas include intellectual property protection, entry and exit, and social security, but these are handled by different departments, Xu said.
“We expect various government departments can better coordinate their activities this year,” he said.
Tang Ningyu, deputy dean of the Antai College of Economics and Management of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, suggested Shanghai create a better environment to attract more foreign professionals to work here.
Tang suggested the city provide policy support in areas including personal income tax, housing and children’s education, as well as building a more open, inclusive and international environment.
Other topics, including the establishment of the science and technology innovation board, the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone and integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta region, were also discussed.
