1st Tesla 3 body-in-white marks new future for Lingang’s vision 
2019-09-27
the first body-in-white of Tesla Model 3 has rolled off the production line at the automaker’s Gigafactory 3 in Lingang, which recently became part of Shanghai’s free trade zone.
“It took eight months from breaking ground at the Tesla Shanghai Gigafactory to the output of this product, which fully reflects ‘Shanghai speed and Lingang service’,” said Yuan Guohua, president of Lingang Group.
State-owned Lingang Group is accelerating the rollout of key areas in the automotive industrial chain to meet the demands of Tesla and build a complete new-energy vehicle industry ecosystem.
Grace Tao, Tesla’s global vice president, said Lingang is a dreamland for Tesla. 
“With the establishment of the Lingang new area and preferential policies to support the development of the intelligent connected vehicle industry, we look forward to deepening cooperation with all parties in the application of intelligent connected technology and the promotion of new-energy vehicles in the future,” Tao said.
“This will jointly help the new area achieve greater development.”
Saint-Gobain Sekurit (Shanghai) Co is part of the Tesla project. It has built a glass factory in Lingang to produce front and rear windshields and glass roofs for the Model 3. “Mass production is anticipated from October 14, together with the output of Model 3 vehicles,” said Ma Jun, head of the company’s Lingang factory.
“Our annual output is expected to reach 120 million yuan (US$17 million). And at the next stage, we may increase our investment and produce for the Model Y.”
In 2018, the total output of Lingang’s vehicle and auto parts industry was 38 billion yuan.
“Beyond the power equipment industry, it has become the most important industry with the highest output in the manufacturing sector of the new area,” Yuan said.
The signing ceremony yesterday to promote key projects for intelligent connected vehicles and NEVs involving 24 major operations in manufacturing, applications, service and functional platforms covered total investment of nearly 8 billion yuan.
The infrastructure for the development of the ICV and NEV industry in Lingang is being improved.
Shanghai southern port is a national Class A port with 400,000 vehicles loaded and unloaded in 2018, ranking it among the top 6 in China.
The Lingang Logistics Park and Yangshan Bonded Port Area house the Asia-Pacific distribution centers of prestigious car manufacturers such as BMW and Volkswagen Porsche, as well as a large number of shipping logistics and trade services enterprises, such as Maersk.
A Shanghai Lingang Autonomous and Informationalized Vehicle Integrative Testing & Demonstration Zone (Future LAIV) has been built, which features a dedicated test zone of 7 square kilometers for unmanned ICVs. 
The first phase of 26.1 kilometers of open test road is able to simulate different traffic conditions, which has attracted several high-tech firms.
Shanghai Lingang LC Investment Co sees the development of ICVs as a key trend and has invested heavily in the development of high-performance chips and lidar — light detection and ranging, similar to radar.
