Stanford Residences building a name in luxury living 
2019-06-27
WHILE the gap between the hardware of high-end serviced apartments is getting closer these days, especially in an increasingly crowded market like Shanghai, the essence of true luxury accommodation is always more about experience.
Sticking to its mission since Day One to offer residents a true living experience, Stanford Residences, a luxury serviced residency brand established in 2013 in the mainland by Hong Kong-headquartered K.Wah Group under the company’s diversification strategy, has successfully transformed itself from a completely new player in the city’s serviced residency realm into a well-established name over the course of about six years.
Opening its first property in March 2015 in downtown Jing’an District, the luxury serviced residency chain has expanded its local portfolio to three locations.
With the philosophy of “Where Enchanted Living Comes Together,” Stanford Residences’ three projects — Stanford Residences Jing An, Stanford Residences Xu Hui and Stanford Residences Jin Qiao — are all designed to impress guests with high quality apartments that showcase the architecture and living environment of modern age.
Supported by K.Wah Group’s extensive experience in hotel management and operation of premium residences, the three properties, catering to the needs of various types of customers from both China and abroad, have made their name repeatedly heard since their debut in a number of heavy-weight industry awards, including the prestigious China Hotel Starlight Awards, dubbed often as the Oscar of the Chinese hotel industry.
Unveiled more than four years ago in the central business district, the Stanford Residences Jing An, which offers a wide variety of spacious apartment layouts starting from 170-square-meter three-bedroom apartments to duplex and penthouse units as large as 527 square meters, garnered tremendous positive feedback from the market with its extremely convenient location, stylish in-room decor and furniture and superb facilities, as well as sincere, attentive service and a relaxing, home-like atmosphere.
A truly successful beginning of the brand, Stanford Residences Jing An has been maintaining high occupancy rates over the past few years with occupancy remaining above 90 percent.
About two years later in June 2017, a second development was added to the brand’s network to duplicate the success of Jing An project.
Located on West Jianguo Road, one of Shanghai’s most upscale addresses, Stanford Residences Xu Hui provides exquisitely decorated apartments spanning from 157-square-meter two-bedrooms to 526-square-meter penthouses, perfect to accommodate families in different stages. Conveying an ode to classic French elegance, the project boasts several highlights which mainly include a high-rise lobby combining luxury and sophistication, easy access to the Palace amenities where a 4,400-square-meter private club house and the Palace Lane lifestyle center are housed, a five-star butler service and 24-hour concierge service, among others.
And the luxury serviced residency chain quickly extended its footprint to Pudong in November 2017 with the opening of its third project, the Stanford Residences Jin Qiao.
Sitting next to the Biyun international community, a high-end neighborhood in Shanghai for expatriates, the project boasts convenient access to public transport and offers clients more flexibility in leases, instead of a minimum 12 months required at the other two properties in Puxi.
Best-in-class brands, including Kohler for the bathroom and Kuppersbusch for the kitchen, are deployed to offer residents a sense of luxury and extreme comfort at Stanford Residences Jin Qiao where a broad selection of layouts, ranging between 86-square-meter two-bedroom to 214-square-meter three-bedroom, are able to cater to all that a family needs. Interior design of the rooms is crafted by Indigo, a world leading residence and hotel design brand, to create simplicity and subdued sophistication.
With its landscape featuring lush greenery, a natural river nearby and a jogging trail surrounded by fruit trees, Stanford Residences Jin Qiao aims to set the highest standards in environmental sustainability.
As a matter of fact, the concept of environmental sustainability has been deeply rooted in both the development and operation of Stanford Residences properties. In one of the latest “green” endeavors made by the company, a special event was held at Stanford Residences on Children’s Day with a hope to further increase awareness of environmental protection among the public, especially the younger generation.
Families from across the city came together and participated in the three-hour and “Go Green” event, during which interactive activities were organized for both fun and knowledge.
In the “My Backyard Improvisation” section, professional florists were invited to help parents and kids make creative handworks with recyclable waste like newspapers, buttons, bottle caps, paper cups together with beautiful flowers . During the process, environmental protection-related knowledge was naturally conveyed to the children who felt very happy that they were able to make their own Children’s Day gifts.
Another game mimicking the garbage classification contest in China’s popular reality show “Running Man,” held with an aim to inform the kids about Shanghai’s garbage-sorting regulations which will come into effect on July 1, also attracted children’s attention and interest instantly. Parents and kids held heated discussions before putting the “garbage” into the right dustbin, teaching the kids the need to do their bit in tackling the city’s mounting trash problem in a fun way.
Looking forward, Stanford Residences will remain committed to its mission to provide tenants with a truly luxury living experience, keep upgrading its facilities and comprehensive services to create a home-like ambiance for all guests around the world as the company continues to grow its footprint in the industry at a steady and solid pace.
