City remains attractive for foreign investments 
2019-11-21
Shanghai remains a favored destination for foreign investors despite a slight drop in its rankings for real-estate investment prospects, according to a report by the Urban Land Institute and PricewaterhouseCoopers, which was released yesterday.
The city is ranked seventh for both investment opportunities and development prospects for 2020, down from this year’s sixth and fifth places, according to the annual report, which was based on the opinions of more than 460 real-estate professionals, including investors, developers, lenders, brokers and consultants.
“Shanghai, regarded as a gateway city by foreign investors, accounts for the majority of cross-border deals in the Chinese mainland,” said Sally Sun, PwC China Assurance Partner. “This year, in the context of slow economic growth caused by the US-China trade friction along with an ongoing regulatory crackdown on domestic bank and non-bank lending, foreign funds are finding that prices today are lower and assets more available.”
Notably, Shenzhen ranks above Shanghai in this year’s survey, taking the sixth spot in both investment and development prospects, most likely benefiting from the development of the Greater Bay Area.
“Shenzhen has overtaken Shanghai to become the top-ranking investment market in China,” said Albert Chan, Chair of ULI Chinese mainland. “It is well-positioned within the GBA because of its new focus on software and finance and its improved transport links to other cities in the area.”
For the two other first-tier cities in China, Guangzhou is ranked ninth in investment opportunities and 13th in development prospects; Beijing stands at 13th and 21st in the two categories, respectively.
Across the region, Singapore (1), Tokyo (2), Sydney (4) and Melbourne (5) are ranked as four of the top five markets for investment prospects, reflecting investor preferences for regional markets that are large, liquid and defensive. 
Ho Chi Minh City, at No. 3, is the lone emerging market to be viewed favorably due to its strong economic growth as it absorbs Chinese manufacturing capacity moving offshore.
