Spain gets high-speed 5G mobile thanks to Huawei 
2019-06-17
IN cooperation with Chinese telecom giant Huawei, Vodafone Espana has rolled out the first commercial 5G mobile services in Spain.
The 5G mobile network covers 15 major Spanish cities including Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia and Seville.
Around half of the residents will be able to enjoy the cutting-edge high-speed network service, which will be expanded in the future.
With 5G mobile phones, customers in Spain will experience download speeds of up to 1Gbps at launch and up to 2Gbps by the end of the year, which means it could be 10 times faster than that of the 4G network, said Vodafone.
The low-latency network will be fundamental for some key technologies such as autonomous driving, telemedicine and virtual reality.
Two European countries, Britain and Switzerland, have already rolled out their first 5G mobile services.
Britain’s EE and the Swiss carrier Sunrise have both been equipped with Huawei gear and technology.
It is believed that the launch of 5G network in Spain will allow Vodafone to launch more 5G services in other countries. The company will commercialize 5G services to users in seven cities in Britain from July 3 this year, while 5G roaming coverage in Britain, Italy and Germany will be available this summer.
The launch of Huawei-engineered 5G network in Spain came as the United States has been pressuring its European allies to exclude Huawei from their 5G network construction on the groundless pretext of “security risk.”
Despite this, Spain, Germany, Britain and the Netherlands have decided not to bar Huawei from participating in the building of their 5G network. Germany said it already has a high standard for security regarding 5G network, while Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Borrell declared earlier in March that relations with Huawei are very important for Spanish telecom companies and Spain has no prejudice against anyone.
Vodafone CEO Nick Read warned in February in Barcelona that banning Huawei from Europe’s 5G networks would be harmful for operators and consumers and might delay its rollout by “probably two years.”
