Medical companies make a beeline with latest products 
2019-10-29
A TOTAL of 313 medical firms will participate in the second China International Import Expo with a total exhibition area of nearly 45,000 square meters to showcase advanced products and services, including pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, health care products, and nursing solutions. 
The number of Global Fortune 500 companies and leading enterprises this year will be double that of the first CIIE. Sixteen Global Fortune 500 companies will cover 13,844 square meters, with another 46 industry leaders occupying a total area of 18,375 square meters in the exhibition area of medical equipment and health care products. 
Wu Jun, of the China International Import Expo Bureau, said the medical section was the first to attract enough exhibitors to fill the entire hall for this sector, after which the bureau expanded the exhibition area to 45,000 square meters, but it’s still not enough to meet the needs of all enterprises.
AstraZeneca plc and Merck & Co have the biggest exhibition areas at 800 square meters each.
Having missed the first expo, Merck & Co said it hoped to make up for it this time, according to Wu, who said many large enterprises had said they hoped to book the best booths for next year’s CIIE and the year after that.
“Many medical companies, including AstraZeneca, Sanofi, Johnson & Johnson and Medtronic, have signed up for the third expo, and Terumo Corp from Japan, which will celebrate its 100th anniversary next year, has booked booths for the third and fourth CIIE, which means they will participate in the expo for four years in a row,” said Wu.
“Based on the information we’ve collected earlier, it is conservatively estimated that more than 200 new products and technologies will make their global, regional or Chinese debuts at the expo,” Wu said. “This number is double last year’s.”
Terumo Corp is bringing its Nanopass 34G pen needle — the world’s thinnest double tapered pen needle with a diameter of only 0.18 millimeters. 
Boston Scientific will display its Sentinel Cerebral Protection System, which is indicated for use as an embolic protection device to capture and remove thrombus/debris while performing TAVR (transcatheter aortic valve replacement) procedures.
