Li Qiang: Shanghai to embrace AI actively 
2019-08-30
A BATCH of policies and agreements are set to be signed at the 2019 World Artificial Intelligence Conference, which opened in Shanghai yesterday.
Artificial intelligence has the power to reshape all industries, and has become a priority for Shanghai. The government will keep an “open attitude and embrace AI and actively boost the AI ecosystem” to make the city a global “AI Highland,” Shanghai’s Party Secretary Li Qiang said at the opening ceremony.
More than 70 AI and 5G projects will be signed at the three-day conference, including Huawei’s 5G innovation center, CloudWalk’s global operation center and IBM Watson’s center.
Two Shanghai-based firms will join the national open innovation platform for next-generation AI, the first local companies to do so.
The national platform previously consisted of four tech giants — Baidu, Alibaba, Tencent and iFlytek. At the opening session yesterday, 10 new companies were enrolled in it.
Each of the companies on the platform is focused on a particular category of AI, such as Baidu on self-driving and iFlytek on voice recognition.
The new list includes Yitu and Mininglamp from Shanghai, plus giants such as Huawei and JD.com.
Shanghai has advantages in developing an AI platform, such as talent, advanced manufacturing and chip industries, government officials said.
There are more than 1,000 core AI enterprises and more than 3,000 pan-AI enterprises in Shanghai. The scale of related industries exceeds 70 billion yuan (US$9.8 billion), giving the city a head start over others in the country.
The event is expected to attract 200,000 visitors, compared with 170,000 last year.
This year’s theme is “Intelligent Connectivity, Infinite Possibilities.” The event, which was inaugurated at the Shanghai Expo Center, will have about 500 guests and speakers including Nobel laureates, researchers, IT scientists, government officials and leaders of dot-com giants in attendance.
Over 50 percent of the speakers at the forums are from overseas.
Twelve themed forums will cover topics ranging from education, intelligent algorithms, chips and smart hardware to unmanned driving and 5G.
