Lingang booming with billions in investment 
2019-09-13
More than 20 projects worth a total of 11 billion yuan (US$1.55 billion) were launched in the Lingang Special Area yesterday.
The projects mainly focus on consolidating the area, newly taken into he China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, as a future-oriented intelligent manufacturing hub, a high-end international services cluster and a major source of scientific and technological innovation.
They cover the development of integrated circuits, artificial intelligence, biomedicine, civil aviation, new-energy vehicles and other high-tech industries.
Since the launch of the new area late last month, the agglomeration of high-end industrial projects and enterprise headquarters has accelerated, according to Zhu Zhisong, executive deputy director of Lingang Special Area Administrative Committee.
The committee and its business arms are approaching nearly 200 projects. Through preliminary negotiations, deals are expected to be struck on more than 70 projects worth a total 100 billion yuan.
Construction of the Enn Group’s micro gas turbine project, the high-end manufacturing industrial park and the industrial park of new-energy auto parts also kicked off yesterday.
The 450-million-yuan gas turbine project covers 2 hectares in Lingang’s heavy equipment industrial zone.
It took Enn Energy Power Technology (Shanghai) Co just five days to obtain the necessary permits after winning the bid for the land on August 29.
The project will develop micro and small gas turbines and serve the development and industrialization of 100 kilowatt and 300kw micro gas turbines.
The high-end manufacturing industrial park and the industrial park of new-energy auto parts are both in the Fengxian area of the Lingang New Area.
The parks have apartments for workers and other support facilities, such as canteens, shops, banks and medical services.
The high-end manufacturing industrial park is adjacent to the Fengxian park in Lingang. It is bordered by Zhengshun Road in the east, Pingda Road in the south, Youyi River in the north and Dale Port in the west.
The park will cover 65,000 square meters, with a total investment of about 460 million yuan. With a total floor area of 79,000 square meters, it will be built in 2021.
The 55,000-square-meter industrial park of new-energy auto parts is next to phase one of the Tesla Shanghai Gigafactory. It will border Zhengjia Road in the east, Jiangshan Road in the south and reach Pingda Road in the north.
It involves around 300 million yuan of investment and will be built by the end of 2020.
Other projects include the Innovation Academy for Microsatellites of the Chinese Academy of Sciences which will carry out its second phase construction in Lingang by the end of the year.
The third phase or the R&D of commercial satellites will be implemented in Lingang, according to Zhou Sigen, deputy Party secretary of the academy.
“It is anticipated that in the next 10 years, we will develop hundreds of satellites in the Lingang new area, involving major national space projects, frontier scientific tasks and the development of space industrialization,” Zhou said.
With Lingang expected to become a center for the R&D of integrated circuits, semiconductor manufacturer GLC Semiconductor Co plans to invest 5 billion yuan in building an R&D center and a manufacturing base for third generation compound semiconductor GaN technology.
The GLC team has mastered the core technologies and key experiences of GaN semiconductor fabrication process, and has several core technology patents, which can lead the rapid development of GaN.
GLC is leading the development and production of GaN-on-Si, GaN-on-SiC epitaxial wafers, and related chip design.
The GaN high-power semiconductor and high RF semiconductor it developed play key roles in power control systems and communications for high-speed rail, electric vehicles, 5G, radar, robotics and other industries, said Liu Jian, chairman of GLC Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co.
