Yang yang extends his life of movements in a new way and is elected as the member of the International Olymipc Committee.
Chinese short track speed skater Yang Yang takes a photo with torchbearer and former Canadian women's national hockey team captain Kathleen Casey on Nov. 22, 2018. Yang Yang took part in the Vancouver Olympic torch relay on Prince Edward Island in eastern Canada. Reported by the Xinhua News Agency.
Vancouver, Feb. 12 (by Zhou Xin and Wang Jingyu) Chinese short track speed skater Yang Yang was elected a member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) by an overwhelming majority of 89 votes to 5 at the 122nd session of the IOC in Vancouver on Thursday.
Yang Yang is the first Chinese athlete to be elected to the IOC, and the fourth IOC member from mainland China after He Zhenliang, Lu Shengrong and Yu Zaiqing.
"It is a great honor for me to be elected to the IOC and I want to thank the IOC and the General Administration of Sport for their trust in me," Yang said excitedly after his election. I am given this opportunity today because of the hard work and dedication of the older generation of Chinese athletes to the international Olympic cause over the years."
"Today's selection does not mean that I am an outstanding individual. It means that with the development of sports in China, the IOC is paying more attention to the role that Chinese athletes can play in the development of the international Olympic Movement." The Winter Olympics and Yang Yang have an indissoluble relationship. At the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics, she won her first Olympic gold medal, which was China's first gold medal ever.
Before the Vancouver Winter Olympics opened, Yang Yang was elected as a member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), realizing the transformation from elite athlete to IOC member.
"This is an extension and new start of my sports life, with deeper meaning and greater responsibility. I will be duty-bound to devote more energy and enthusiasm to the development of the Olympic cause, "Yang said.
Since 1999, when she was still an athlete, Yang Yang has been actively involved in the international sports organizations work. At that time, she was elected as a member of the International Skating Federation's Sports Committee; In 2003, she was elected a member of the World Anti-Doping Commission's Athletes Commissioner. In 2006, Yang Yang was nominated by IOC President Jacques Rogge as a member of the Women and Sport Commission of the International Olympic Committee.
In January 2010, Yang Yang was elected a member of the IOC Athletes Commission.
During her 23-year career, Yang Yang has won 59 world championships and also is the athlete who won most medals. She has competed in three Winter Olympics, winning 5 medals in all, 2 gold, 2 silver and 1 bronze. In particular, she won two gold medals in women's 500-meter and 1,000-meter short track speed skating at the 2002 Winter Olympic Games, which was a breakthrough for the Chinese sports delegation to achieve zero gold medal at the Winter Olympic Games.
During the Vancouver Winter Olympics, Yang Yang, as a new member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), will be awarded gold medals to athletes.
On the Jan 12th, the six members of the international Olympic committee, including Yang are successfully elected, in addition to the prince faisal, Jordan international cycling federation President, Alan McQuaid, Irish, New Zealand Olympic committee secretary general maister, international triathlon union chairman, Spanish kasarda han bell and Ethiopia ioc officials.
The file of Yang Yang The foreign name:Yang Yang Height: 1.66 meters. Weight: 60 kg.
Yang Yang, female, born in Tangyuan, Heilongjiang Province on August 24, 1975, is a member of the Communist Party of China, a national sportsman, and a delegate to the 16th National Congress of the CPC. She is a member of the National Short Track Speed Skating Team and a skater from Heilongjiang.
Yang comes from Qitaihe, Heilongjiang. She started skating in 1984. In April 1988, she entered Harbin Sports School and practiced short-track speed skating. He joined the national team in 1995.
In November 2002, he attended the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China held in Beijing. (Xinhua)
