Key Projects Suffered From Injuries and Injuries Surprise Domestic and Foreign Attacks on China's Short - Track Team
According to Xinhua News Agency, the Vancouver Winter Olympic Games is about to open, in the day before the oath-taking meeting, full of confidence in the Chinese short track team but ushered in the attack of injuries. This is the speed skating event that will be the focus of the Winter Olympics and the biggest challenge for The Chinese team.
In fact, Li Yan, the coach of the Chinese short-track team, admitted that she was most worried about injuries during the National Short Track Speed Skating League in early January. Worried about the unfortunate words, in the distance from the opening of the Winter Olympic Games about half a month, the main force of the women's team Liu Qiuhong injured, can catch up with the Winter Olympic Games in time into doubt.
Turin Olympic champion Wang Meng broke down in tears when he saw his teammate Liu Qiuhong stay in Beijing after the Chinese team left for a fitness training session in Canada on January 29. China coach Li Yan showed her tough and determined side when she said the team "will not give up Liu Qiuhong" until the deadline for individual Olympic applications. Liu Qiuhong, who suffered a leg injury in training, is now racing against time to join the team in Canada after recovering from the injury. For China, the combination of foreign troubles and domestic worries means the Winter Olympics will be even more dangerous. After Liu Qiuhong was injured, Zhao Nannan went to Canada with the team as a substitute. Li Yan said that now, both the main players and the substitutes feel more responsibility on their bodies, which more stimulated the morale of everyone. Li Yan is usually cautious about her gold medal goals, but before she left Beijing for Canada, she said: "No matter who goes on to compete, you have to give it your best. The men's team's goals are the 500 meters and the relay. We want to make a breakthrough."
Short track speed skating is a dominant sport for China, which is expected to win gold at this year's Winter Olympics. China's success in the World Cup this season will see whether it ends South Korea's monopoly on the sport. Lan Li, director of the Winter Sports Management Center under the General Administration of Sport of China, said in an interview with Xinhua News Agency that the South Korean team, which won six gold medals at the last Winter Olympics, still has an absolute advantage in men's events. In women's events, South Korea is relatively weak in the short and medium distances, where China is strong, while in the 1,500m and relay events, the two teams are evenly matched. Even when Liu was not injured, Lan repeatedly warned the team: "You must be fully prepared for the difficulty and drama of the Winter Olympics." Lan said that although China has had good results in recent seasons, it is still a young team and should not always feel better than others. "To play the Winter Olympics, you have to 'get off your high horse'," he said.
In the ranking and total ranking of the International Skating Federation World Cup this season, the Chinese women's team has occupied the first place in each individual ranking, showing its super strength. Li Yan is not impressed. Based on past experience, she said, the South Korean team's condition and ability will be "completely different" from the World Cup after their closed training in the months leading up to the Winter Olympics. "We have some advantages in women's events, but not enough," said Li. The South Korean team's performance at the Winter Olympics is bound to be amazing. In addition, the host countries, Canada and the United States, are also making rapid progress."
