South Korean Media Said The Coach's Gaffe was Due To Great Pressure and Didn't Mention Any Secret Shots of His Country
Tencent Sports News, February 15th, Beijing time. Yesterday, the South Korean Short Track Speed Skating Team, who just fratricidally lost the silver and bronze medals in the men’s 1,500-meter arena, rebirthed incident--the head coach of the women's team blatantly used a plastic water bottle to smash the Chinese coach who was taking reasonable shots during training. South Korea’s "Yonhap News Agency" did not criticize the misbehavior of its own coaches, but claimed that the coach’s behavior was only due to excessive pressure. The full text is translated as follows:
The short track speed skating teams of South Korea and China conflicted again, and the nerve battle between the two teams even reached the point of throwing water bottles.
In the men's 1500m race the previous day, Lee Ho Seok from Gaoyang Audiovisual Club collided with Seong Baek Si from another club, causing the South Korean team to accidentally lose its silver and bronze medals. There has been a bad atmosphere within the South Korean team, but when everyone was working hard to quell the incident, the appearance of the water bottle incident once again made the situation worse.
The reason for the matter was that during the training of the Korean team, Chinese staff were taking pictures. Then the women's team coach Choe Gwang Bok loudly asked the Chinese personnel to stop filming, but the opponent still secretly filmed elsewhere after leaving the seat. As a result, Coach Choe Gwang Bok broke out and threw a water bottle at the Chinese personnel. Coach Choe Gwang Bok’s actions shocked the team leader Gim Gi Gim. He pulled the coach away and asked the doctor to walk into the audience to ask the Chinese staff to leave the venue.
In fact, China’s intelligence war against the South Korean team has already started. Collecting intelligence started from the final training camp in Calgary, which made Coach Choe Gwang Bok intolerable and threw a water bottle.
However, Li Yan, the head coach of the Chinese team, expressed her protest in an interview with the news system of the Vancouver Winter Olympics Organizing Committee. “This is the venue for the upcoming Winter Olympics. We are allowed to take photos, and we did not make any mistakes. "
"During our tactical analysis and videotaping, the head coach of the South Korean women’s team threw a water bottle at us and yelled loudly in Korean. Although we did not understand, what she said has been filmed. We are going to find someone to translate and listen to. Listen to what she said." Li Yan said at last.
The Chinese team’s assistant coach and foreign teacher Paul Marchese also expressed dissatisfaction in an interview, “The Korean team hates videography, but everyone does it. Maybe some people will be intimidated by this, but it has no effect on the Chinese team."
From the reports of the Korean media, it is not difficult to see that the Korean short-track speed skating team has experienced internal strife due to the previous " dog-eat-dog", which has caused the pressure on the coaches to double. Although the South Korean media did not mention a word about the sneak shots of the Chinese team’s training in their own country, judging from the impact of this incident and the current response of the Chinese side, the harmonious atmosphere of the Chinese team and the verbal criticism of the South Korean team by all parties including the American star Apollo It has created too much pressure on them. (Small Ka) [Editor in charge: Smiling]
