Chinese short - track was misjudged repeatedly. The worst judge: getting silver was good enough.
Different from speed skating, there is no lane division in short track speed skating, and the perimeter of the short track speed skating track is limited, and the distance of the corners is relatively large. These objective conditions make the collision phenomenon often occur in the race, and the controversial judgment is common. Wang Meng was disqualified for a foul in the women's 1500m short track speed skating semi-final yesterday. Wang Meng did not understand the referee's decision after the game, but she could only accepted the final result. In fact, the Chinese short-track speed skating team had faced a number of controversial decisions at past Winter Olympics.
In 1994 Lillehammer Winter Olympic Games, China's No. 1 Zhang Yanmei led the women's 500 meters in the first three laps. Zhang was going to snow and ice project in China, breaking the last enough. While the accident happened: in the second American Kathy suddenly push-pull Zhang's knee, with her left hand and into the inside of the extrusion hard, Her "Panwaizhao" made zhang almost fell down and was forced to slow down. Kathy took this chance to surpass zhang, and crossed the finish line first. After Zhang Yanmei reached the finish line, she indicated to the referee that Kathy had committed a serious foul. However, the Dutch referee ignored her. The worst referee even said in a funny way: "It's good enough for you Chinese to get a silver medal. Many countries have expressed dissatisfaction to the unequal treatment suffered by China. They said that the gold medal should belong to Zhang Yanmei, even the big screen in the scene again and again playing the "masterpiece" of Kathy. All this, however, failed to move the "judge".
In the 1998 Nagano Winter Olympic Games, the Chinese women's athletes met with another controversial penalty. In the 500 meters final, Wang Chunlu grabbed the advantageous position after starting. After 4 laps, she was hit by an opponent who overtook her from the inside lane, and they both fell down. The Canadian runner behind took advantage of the opportunity to slide past and reached the finish line first. The Chinese team immediately lodged a protest and the referee studied it for 10 minutes and declared the foreign player foul, but the result could not be changed. After the event, the industry insider believed that the rules stipulated in any controversial issues were decided by the chief referee. The short speed skating rules were not perfect enough.
Certainly,controversial decisions are not limited to Chinese players. There are also similiar incidents between foreign players, the most typical of which was the famous "Jin Dongsheng incident" eight years ago. In the men's 1500m final at the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics, Jin Dongsheng of South Korea and Apollo of the United States took the lead in turn. In the sprint stage, Jin Dongsheng of South Korea hit the line first, but the referee ruled that he had obstructed and was disqualified. Apollo was thus lucky to win the gold. South Korea reacted strongly to the incident, with domestic media criticizing Jin's treatment as a champion when he returned home. Interestingly, when the South Korean soccer star Ahn Jung-hwan scored a goal against the United States in the World Cup in Japan, he celebrated by imitating short-track speed skating, which showed how much the Kim incident affected the whole country. (Wang Wen)(Jinan Times)
