China's single player Miao Han break down the tactics of Han Sanshu. What makes him be hopelessly outnumbered?
As eight skaters stood at the starting line of the women's 1,500m short-track speed skating event at the Vancouver Winter Olympics, I suddenly heard a voice in my native voice: "Oh my god!" I don't know whether it is Zhou Yang's "114" number making him touched by the scene, or is the three South Korean players appearing at the same time to make people shudder.
With Wang Meng's surprise exit in the semifinals, the pressure for a gold medal in the women's 1,500m falls on Zhou Yang. Zhou admits after the match: "The captain (Wang Meng) told me not to watch her match, but I did so secretly. Seeing her fall, my heart pulled.she was sentenced to foul, my heart pulled again. My mind was blank at that time."
As expected, South Korea's Piao Shengyi, Li Enxing and Zhao Haili started the final with a pin-up tactic, as they tried to tie the only Chinese player, Zhou Yang. But they did not think of Zhou Yang's coping tactics: an opening slide!
Leading slip is a tactic formulated by coach Li Yan for Zhou Yang. In the women's 1,500m short track speed skating final at the Turin Winter Olympics four years ago, Wang Meng was outnumbered by three famous South Koreans lonely. In the end, three South Korean athletes finished the race firstly. However, Wang Meng, who finished fourth, won the bronze medal after Bian was disqualified for a foul. "Only the lead skater can get rid of the interference of the South Korean skater. But it's a risky move. It is a tactic rarely used in long distance races because it exhausted runners in the second half of the race and may not have the energy to sprint." Speaking of this risky move after the game, Li Yan coach is still scared.
The whole competition revolves around the process of "lead slip - be led slip - lead slip". Zhou Yang tried to lead from the start of the race. After several successful attempts, she was overtaken several times by the South Korean, who was good at coordination, but she suddenly gained momentum with three laps to go and overtook all the competitors in front of her in just one straight. More slippery more fierce, Zhou Yang thereafter did not give the opponent the opportunity of getting close to her. Zhou Yang, who is under even 19 years old, not only broke the Olympic record by winning her first gold medal in the event, but also shattered South Korea's hopes of dominating the event for a third consecutive Winter Games. After the competition, Li Yan held Zhou Yang and said excitedly, "You are usually very gentle, but I never expected you to play so hard in the competition!"
Zhou Yang is really gentle when she walks down the ice lane.
In the mixed area, Zhou Yang was interviewed by our reporter and said in a low voice: "What do you want to ask?" Before the reporter ask her questions, she said quickly that there are three things to do: she will put the gold medal on the pillow to accompany her sleeping all night, and have a good dream; She will bring the Olympic mascot dolls back to Beijing to live with the Mickey Mouse dolls in the national team's apartment; On the 24th, she won the gold medal of women's 3000m relay together with her teammates, which was the gold medal Zhou Yang most wanted to win."Because this can tell the Korean athletes that our Chinese team is the strongest!"
As for the women's 1,000-meter gold medal, Zhou Yang did not mention it. Perhaps there is a deep imprint in her simple and kind-hearted heart: "her leader is the best in the short distance event!" Specially appointed correspondent Yang Renjie [Responsibility Editor: Edwin Chen]
