Latest manufacturing trends at CIIF 
2019-09-10
The 21st China International Industry Fair will run from September 17 to 21 at the National Convention and Exhibition Center (Shanghai).
Since 1999, the fair has served as an important platform to support industrial development and cooperation, and promote the global exchange of industrial technology and products.
This year’s fair will reflect the trends in the manufacturing industry today with the theme of “Intelligence, Interconnection — Empowering New Development of Industry.”
According to the Shanghai Commission of Economy and Informatization, there are more than 2,610 exhibitors registered for this year’s fair, many of them from overseas.
The exhibition is likely to attract more than 170,000 professional visitors from home and abroad.
The 21st CIIF will feature many new technologies and products launches. 
UR of Denmark and other leading companies such as Japan’s FANUC and Kawasaki, and German’s KUKA, will display their latest collaborative robots.
Shanghai Microelectronics will showcase the first high-resolution sixth-generation small mask projection exposure machine in China.
Also, the achievements of regional industrial cooperation and development will also be discussed. Many exhibits at the Industry Fair will highlight regional cooperation in the Yangtze River Delta, such as the Robot Exhibition, which will highlight the interaction of the industrial chain in the middle and lower reaches of the Yangtze River Delta.
“5G+Industrial Internet” and “AI+Manufacturing” will also be in focus in this year’s fair. 
Intel, Shanghai Electric and many other domestic and foreign companies will bring the latest application scenarios, and China Telecom, China Mobile, China Unicom and other communication service providers will showcase the latest 5G application results in the industrial field.
The First Power Distribution IoT Technology Conference will be held on September 19. Leading enterprises such as Power Grid and Schneider Electric Technology will participate. 
