The Alma Mater hangs a banner to celebrate Zhou Yang winning the Olympic gold medal, and Zhou Yang plans to invite classmates to dinner in April
The Olympic gold medal won by Zhou Yang, who was not even 19 years old, was a breakthrough for China's short track speed skating, and even more so for snow and ice events in Jilin province. Many people at Zhou's home cheered for him yesterday, and her former school teachers and classmates were also happy and proud of her.
The school will make a big banner tomorrow
Zhou Yang's Alma Mater is the primary school of Changchun Institute of Optics and Machine Science, which is, as the name implies, the school for children of employees of Changchun Institute of Optics and Machine Science (soon to be renamed Changchun Foreign Language Experimental School). The students were still on holiday yesterday, but the deserted school was still surrounded by a cheerful atmosphere. "Zhou Yang has won the championship!” The teachers who were preparing their lessons cheered excitedly. For that little Zhou, many teachers still have an impression. Xu Lin, the schoolmaster, patiently contacted her teachers and classmates for the reporter, "This child is so proud of herself that I planned to call her back to attend our flag-raising ceremony last April, but later there was a temporary event and she didn't make it."
Principal Xu used to be Zhou Yang's English teacher. "The Institute of Optics and Machine Science is a scientific research institution, and the students here are basically the children of the researchers, and they have a very good learning state. Zhou Yang is a very intelligent child, and he is absolutely not the kind of person who does not study hard while practicing sports."
Vice-principal Hou Xu introduces that in addition to Zhou Yang, there are also many sports talents in the primary school. "Xu Guangnan, Han Yangwenyi, and other sports elite have participated in many important games on behalf of Changchun. One of them, Gao Shengxiang, who comes to school a year ahead of Zhou, is selected to China's junior soccer team and is currently playing college soccer in Japan." Gao was a striker and scored a goal for China in the qualifying match of the 2005 AFC U-16 Championship on November 14, said Jin Jinyu, dean of the students.
Xu decided happily, "Tomorrow we'll make a big banner and hang it outside the school. Zhou Yang is the best!"
Zhou Yang will treat her classmates to dinner in April
Fu Zemeng, now in the High School Attached to Northeast Normal University, is a childhood friend and a classmate of Zhou Yang. Both of them are in Class two in primary school. Fu said that the two families are not far away, and his mother and Zhou Yang's mother are familiar with each other. After primary school, however, Zhou and Fu lost contact for a while. "One day I received a message from Zhou Yang on QQ (a social media of Tencent) out of the blue, and we got in touch." Fu said, "I also said to her that when you return home after the Winter Olympics, you must treat us to dinner! Zhou Yang agreed and said she would have a holiday in April and she must visit our classmates." After she won yesterday, Fu and his classmates began leaving messages online saying, "You know what? Our classmate won the Olympic gold medal!"
Fu also told a story about Zhou Yang. In 2001, when Fu was 10 years old, his parents took him to the playground of Changchun Institute of Optics and Mechanics (now Changchun University of Science and Technology) to exercise. "At that time, I was quite reluctant, but I met Zhou Yang. I had to be companied with my parents, but Zhou Yang ran by herself, and she always runs four or five laps on the 400-meter track." "After that, my parents always said, 'You need to learn from her.'" Fu recalled.
Reporter: Chen Tao
www.hsw.cn The New Cultural Newspaper
