South Korean media review: lost the champion in 4 minutes, the women's team cried togehther.
on 25th February, the Vancouver Winter Olympic Games short track speed skating women's event ended the third competition. In the final of the 3,000-meter relay, the Chinese women's team of Wang Meng, Zhou Yang, Zhang Hui and Sun Linlin, though they crossed the finish line second, were awarded the title after a clear foul by the first South Korean team. It was also the first gold medal for the Chinese team in a team event at the Winter Olympics. After the game, major South Korean Web sites had exploded.
KBS: The "5" of the Korean women's team is gone
KBS used such a big "5" word to describe the mood of the loss of Penta Crown. The article pointed out that by Zhao Haili, Park Shengzhi and other players of the South Korean women played very well today. In the course of the race, the South Korean players carried out the coach's tactics very well, and the Chinese team had been leading alternately, and at the last moment, Kim Min-jing was the first to cross the finish line, but the championship was ruthlessly deprived by the referee. In spite of the coach's defense, it didn't help. "Shouldn't have been disqualified," the four South Korean players cried after the game. China swept all three of the women's short track speed skating golds at the Winter Olympics, and it was the first team gold medal in the history of the Winter Olympics.
Daum: 3,000m gold medal was stripped and his face stiffened
Daum, a South Korean web portal, used the change in the facial expressions of a South Korean coach to describe the transformation of the women's team from heaven to hell in three minutes. The article pointed out that the South Korean women's team, led by Park Seung-ji, fought very hard in today's race, falling behind several laps and struggling to overtake China. Kim took advantage of a mis-handoff between China's Zhang Hui and Sun Linlin to overtake China at the last minute and skated all the way to the end, but the referee ruled that Kim had committed a foul in passing Sun in the final decision. The South Korean team was stripped of its gold medal. The head coach of the South Korean women's team tried hard to find the referee, but the result was decided. Several of the South Korean women even cried after the match. That put an end to the South Korean women's hopes of winning a fifth straight title in the 3,000-meter short-track relay, which they had already achieved at the Winter Olympics. But the article also stressed that even if China won the remaining 1,000-meter gold, South Korea would still be the leader in short-track speed skating because it has won the most short-track golds at the Winter Games.
Naver: Hit her in the face? The women's 3,000m title is gone
Another portal in South Korea used a self-answering question to cover the competition. The article pointed out that the gold medal that should have gone to the South Korean women's team was ruthlessly stripped away. The South Korean women's team had always been the strongest in the sport, winning a fourth straight title from 1994 to 2006 in Turin and hoping to achieve a fifth title today. In fact, the South Korean team also played very well in today's match, the strategy of the implementation was very resolute, seizing China's weak round to overtake. But the dynasty was ended by China, whose women's team won the match after their coach appealed at the last minute and won a decision from the referee. From the joy of winning a gold medal to the bitterness of being stripped of it, South Korea's women experienced it all in less than four minutes.
