Li Yan: We won all medals but are not hegemons. Responsibility is what makes China progress.
News form the sport world. The coach of short track speed skating made some comments on the Winter Olympics. The Chinese women's team won four gold medals in the short track speed skating at the Winter Olympics, which was the total number of gold medals won by the Chinese delegation in the history of the Winter Olympics. As the head coach, there was only one word that can express my feelings, and that was proud.
Like the players, it still felt like a dream coming true. Before the start of the race, I was not thinking about winning all medals, but my ambition was to do my best and not take any gold if I could get two. In fact, I know that with our strength, waht we can do the best is certainly the gold medal, so I do not have a lot of pressure. I competed and tried my best to win every medal. When Wang Meng crossed the line, I just thought thay we won this game beautifully, and then back to god, I just reflected that this game was called the Olympic Games. This victory was of great significance.
In fact, returning to China as a coach, I have finished my tasks with two gold medals. I don't know the exact number, and I don't care. I don't even think about it. Although the target and contract are related, but I am not for this. I think my peace of mind may have something to do with the fact that we did so well in the Winter Olympics.
Another key to success is the sense of responsibility of our players. After Liu Qiuhong was injured, I thought the biggest loss was the 3000m relay. Because we only had one leg weak in the past, but now we have two legs weak. However, our players are not discouraged, there is a belief in the bottom of the heart inspired. Small players like Zhang Hui and Sun Linlin, they have made full preparations in mind and ability, so everyone contributed to the success of the Chinese team.
But even if we win all the women's gold medals, we can't say that Chinese women's short track speed skating is the world's dominant team. It can only be said that the Chinese team performed better in this Winter Olympics when they were equally strong. In terms of the Olympic Games we are good enough, but from the training system and talent pool, there is still a gap between South Korea with China. In the youth tournament, our team did well, but South Korea's team was more comprehensive, both in terms of technology and consciousness, and our players were worse. So on that step, we still fell behind.
In men's events, there is still a gap between China and the world's top level. No Chinese players entered the top three in individual competitions, so there is still a certain gap in individual ability. One factor is youth, the other is insufficient experience. Although our strength is close to the world's top level, like Liang Wenhao and Han Jialiang with good speed. But they still lack the ability to grasp the opportunity in the critical time and the control ability. However, our boys did very well in the relay. We finished fourth, but the whole process was very good. To beat Korea, the United States and Canada like that gives us hope. Maybe the women's team is doing so well that there is a lot of pressure on them. I think they need to be a little bit more self-motivated, aspirational, and have the idea that if Koreans can do it, we can do it either.
In fact, our men's team's physical condition is better than Korea's. It depends on what you do. I always tell my players, 'Your competition is already there. You need to think about what do you need to do to catch up with them, or even surpass them?' Don't lose before starting. If lost before the starting line indicates that you do not have enough ability and effort. In fact, we lost before the starting line this time.
