Boeing admits faulty MAX parts 
2019-06-04
Boeing Company on Sunday confirmed that some 737 aircraft involving MAX and NG models may have risks from faulty parts that would result in “a potential nonconformance.”
Boeing has informed the United States Federal Aviation Administration that certain 737 NG and 737 MAX leading edge slat tracks may have been improperly manufactured and may not meet all applicable regulatory requirements for strength and durability, according to the FAA statement.
The leading edge of an aircraft is key to takeoff and landing because it is meant to improve the wing’s drag and therefore the jet’s aerodynamics.
Following an investigation conducted by Boeing and FAA Certificate Management Office, “we have determined that up to 148 parts manufactured by a Boeing sub-tier supplier are affected,” said an FAA statement.
At least 21 NG and 20 MAX airplanes have been identified to be most likely to have the parts in question, Boeing revealed.
 A total of 179 MAX and 133 NG planes worldwide are affected, according to FAA.
Although a complete failure of leading edge slat tracks would not result in the loss of the aircraft, a risk remains that a failed part could lead to aircraft damage in flight, said the statement.
“This is a device considered critical because if the leading edge slats don’t deploy symmetrically, there could be a lift differential that can be dangerous especially on takeoff and landing,” an aeronautics expert said, asking for anonymity.  
 Slat tracks are used to guide movable panels called slats located on the front edge of an airplane’s wings to provide additional lift during takeoffs and landings.
Boeing said it is cooperating with the FAA on fixing the newly found problem while contacting 737 operators, advising them to inspect the slat track assemblies on certain airplanes.
The company suggested inspections be conducted on an additional 112 NG and 159 MAX models, saying one or two days would be required for the replacement work if necessary.
A separate service bulletin will be issued for 737 MAX operators to do inspections before the MAX fleet returns to service, Boeing said.
Boeing 737 MAX aircraft have been grounded globally since March this year after two of the planes crashed in two fatal accidents that killed 346 people in Ethiopia and Indonesia in nearly six months.
