The Battle of the Red Envelopes 
2019-01-30
A WEEK ahead of Chinese New Year, many Chinese are busy collecting red envelopes, not from their relatives or friends but from deep-pocketed tech firms.
Domestic tech giants are racing to bank on the time-honored tradition to gain users for their products as competition at home heats up.
Giving cash in red envelopes (
) is a traditional practice during the Spring Festival and it has been shifting online thanks to the promotion of mobile payment in which people use apps to send, snatch and draw virtual 
 on their smartphones.
The digital red envelope race during the Chinese New Year holiday has become a new tradition since Tencent made a splash in 2014 with the 
 service on its popular instant messaging app WeChat, drawing millions of new users for its mobile payment service.
The race has been escalating every year since then, with new players, new tricks and record sums of money to attract users to invite their friends to use these apps to boost their luck proving an effective means of gaining new users.
Chinese artificial intelligence giant Baidu took the lead this year by preparing a record high of 1.9 billion yuan (US$281.7 million) for digital red envelopes after becoming the exclusive red envelope partner of the China Central Television Spring Festival Gala, the most-watched annual show on Chinese New Year’s eve.
Alibaba continues its game of collecting five blessings to share the lucky money of 500 million yuan, while Weibo prompts users to retweet certain posts to share 100 million yuan. Many firms put 2,019 yuan into red envelopes as the biggest prize.
“I only got less than 100 yuan from the 
 race in the past, but actually the fun is not about money. It lies in social networking,” said Liu Jiang, a sophomore in Beijing.
Behind the red envelopes battle lies the growth priorities of China’s tech titans as well as the latest industrial trends.
Baidu’s 
 campaign aims to lure more users to its flagship artificial intelligence-powered search and news feed app as the company steps up its investment in AI applications, an emerging cash cow for the NASDAQ-listed company.
The bid is also expected to give a leg up to Baidu’s financial services platform, as Internet firms are keen to grab more mobile payment market share and tap growing wealth management demands.
Tencent rolled out a 
 service for firms to give red envelopes to their employees in its latest efforts to boost services for corporate customers.
The red envelope battle has an emerging new group of players this year as short videos rise as popular social media platforms.
Leading short-video platform Douyin, the exclusive social media partner of the CCTV Spring Festival Gala this year, has launched a red envelope game worth 500 million yuan.
