Trump to meet Liu as US and China talk to ease trade row 
2019-10-11
THE top trade negotiators of the United States and China met yesterday for the first time since late July to try to find a way out of a 15-month trade dispute.
US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer greeted Chinese Vice Premier Liu He on the steps of the USTR office before a meeting in which they will seek to narrow differences to avoid a scheduled October 15 tariff rate increase on US$250 billion worth of Chinese goods.
Trump announced yesterday he will meet with Liu today.
“Big day of negotiations with China. They want to make a deal but do I?” Trump said on Twitter. “I meet with the vice premier tomorrow at the White House.”
During a meeting with Craig Allen, president of United States-China Business Council, and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president and head of international affairs at the US Chamber of Commerce, the Chinese vice premier said the China-US economic and trade relationship is of vital importance, and has strong spillover effect and global impact.
Trade wars are not good for China, not good for the United States, and not good for the whole world, and companies and consumers will suffer tremendous losses, he said.
Liu said the Chinese delegation, which came to the negotiations with utmost sincerity, is willing to carry out serious dialogue with the US side on issues of mutual concern, including trade balance, market access and investor protection, and push forward the negotiations to achieve positive progress.
Allen and Brilliant said that there are no winners but only losers in trade wars, and that the business community in the United States does not want to see the imposition of additional tariffs.
They said they hope that the two sides will achieve concrete and clear progress during this round of trade negotiations, deepen mutual trust, lay a good foundation for further talks, and eventually find ways to resolve differences and end the trade war.
The US business community, they added, is willing to play a positive role in this process.
At a meeting with IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva, Liu said that the upcoming round of high-level trade negotiations between China and the United States has drawn high attention from all parties and that it is the whole world’s common aspiration to end the trade war.
The Chinese side is willing to reach consensus with the US side on issues of mutual concern through this round of talks on the basis of equality and mutual respect so as to prevent the disputes from further escalating and spreading, Liu said.
The Chinese side, Liu added, hopes that the international community could make concerted efforts to safeguard world stability and prosperity.
