ToJoy: Empower business, share happiness 
2019-12-09
Halving resources and halving hours, a vision that seems impossible to achieve in the near future, was put forward at the inaugural Global Sharing Economy Forum on November 29.
The first Global Sharing Economy Forum was held in Austrian capital of Vienna, at which the Global Alliance of Sharing Economy (GLASE) was officially launched. The forum encouraged participants to embrace the great sharing economy and to develop a world of business without borders. 
Among participants were global political heavyweights, leaders of institutions and business titans. They included  Fengyun Lei, counsellor of the Chinese embassy in Austria; Doris Bures, second speaker of the Austrian National Assembly; Peter Hanker, minister of finance and economy of the City of Vienna; Nikolaus Schultze, global policy director of the International Chamber of Commerce; Ming Jiang, president of China Business Association; Peter Vesterbacka, founder of Angry Birds and co-founder of and MobileMonday; and William (Bill) Le Voir-Barry, chief technology officer of IBM Video Games.
GLASE appealed to global chambers of commerce to cooperate with enterprises to build an all-round resource-sharing business platform, create new opportunities and jointly realize sustainable development of the world economy. 
Also, the new vision raised at the forum of halving resources and working hours was a hot topic.
Ge Jun, global CEO of the principle sponsor ToJoy Shared Holding Group, who serves as secretary-general of GLASE, predicted that the full development of the great sharing economy could bring about a “dual reduction” effect, which means that under the new economic model of the general great sharing economy, the world will see a dual boost of resources and efficiency. 
This model will promote the exchange of knowledge, skills and funds, which can be maximized to improve efficiency and value. In the end, the aim is to reduce the global consumption of new resources by 50 percent while also reducing people’s working hours by 50 percent, according to Ge.
The idea behind this is that in the era of the great sharing economy, anyone can use resources as needed without owning them. The right of use can be effectively allocated, and potentially critical resources will be fully utilized. At the same time, the increase in efficiency will lead to a reduction in working hours, and people can refocus their time on innovation and enjoyment of interesting things.
Ge also announced the launch of the Global Great Sharing Cloud, an online business platform that enables global business chambers and GLASE member enterprises to have barrier-free interaction and exchanges. 
In addition, GLASE will host the Global Sharing Economy Leaders Summit in different cities worldwide to promote the cooperation and mutual success of leading enterprises around the world. An international consulting committee and a global sharing economy research institute will also be established to guide and support the development of the alliance, according to Ge.
“GLASE is a sharing platform where modern companies can maximize their potential. They can share resources, funds and the best talents for each project so that local businesses can grow rapidly across national borders. GLASE is like an orchestra, ready for the next masterpiece of Commercial Mozart,” Ge said.
As the principle sponsor of the event, ToJoy, after 28 years of development, has become a global enterprise empowerment platform with the mission of empowering business, sharing happiness, and has accelerated more than 130 companies valued at over US$100 million since 2018.
In its many years of operation, ToJoy has explored a set of proven and successful business models, with a bunch of supporting services including marketing, sales, project management, funding, capital management, IPO support and business intelligence. 
The fruitful business models demonstrated that resource and business opportunity sharing can accomplish interconnections and exchanges, and are highly consistent with GLASE’s “Great Sharing” philosophy. 
With a large number of well-known companies such as DHC Software, Origin Water, Sousoushenbian and Zhongshanghuimin entering its global enterprise empowerment platform, ToJoy has already been the largest unicorn accelerator in China and a successful practitioner in the epoch of great sharing economy.
“We will integrate our resources, projects and entrepreneur platform, as well as our close relationship with overseas politicians and scholars we’ve built over the years, to better support the all-round development of GLASE as a global organization promoting the sharing and interconnection of resources in the global business community,” Ge added.
