新年前夕，国家主席习近平通过中国国际广播电台、中央人民广播电台、中央电视台，发表了二〇一六年新年贺词。
Chinese President Xi Jinping delivers his New Year speech via China Radio International, China National Radio and China Central Television, in Beijing, capital of China, on New Year's eve.
全文如下：
The full text is as follows:
再过几个小时，新年的钟声就要敲响了。
In a few hours' time, the bell of the New Year will be ringing.
我们即将告别2015年，迎来2016年的第一缕阳光。
We'll say goodbye to the year of 2015 and greet the first ray of sun light from 2016.
在这辞旧迎新的时刻，我向全国各族人民，向香港特别行政区同胞和澳门特别行政区同胞，向台湾同胞和海外侨胞，向世界各国和各地区的朋友们，致以新年的祝福！
At this occasion of bidding farewell to the old year and welcoming the new, I would like to express my best New Year wishes to Chinese people from all ethnic groups, to our compatriots from Hong Kong and Macao Special Administrative Regions, to our compatriots from Taiwan region and overseas, as well as to friends from all countries and regions around the world!
有付出，就会有收获。
Fruitful gains come with persistent efforts.
2015年，中国人民付出了很多，也收获了很多。
In the year of 2015, Chinese people have made great efforts in building their nation and have achieved enormously.
我国经济增长继续居于世界前列，改革全面发力，司法体制改革继续深化，“三严三实”专题教育推动了政治生态改善，反腐败斗争深入进行。
Our economic growth remained at the forefront of the world, our reforms intensified comprehensively, the reforms on judicial system deepened, the "three stricts" and "three steadies" carried out in earnest, and the fight against corruption advanced solidly.
经过全国各族人民的共同努力，“十二五”规划圆满收官，广大人民群众有了更多的获得感。
Thanks to the great efforts of all Chinese people, the 12th 5-year plan from 2010 to 2015 successfully came to an end, which made the people in this country feel a heightened sense of gains.
这一年，我们隆重纪念了中国人民抗日战争暨世界反法西斯战争胜利70周年，举行了盛大阅兵，昭示了正义必胜、和平必胜、人民必胜的真理。
In the year of 2015, we solemnly commemorated the 70th anniversary of the victory of Chinese people’s War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, with a grand military-parade, showing the truth that justice will prevail, peace will prevail, and people will prevail.
我们全面实施改革强军战略，宣布裁军30万。
We comprehensively implemented the strategy of reforming and strengthening the army, and decided to cut military personnel by 300-thousand.
我和马英九先生在新加坡会面，实现了跨越66年时空的握手，
The meeting between myself and Mr. Ma Ying-jeou in Singapore made the handshake between the top leaders of the mainland and Taiwan a reality after a lapse of 66 years.
表明两岸关系和平发展是两岸同胞的共同心愿。
The handshake demonstrated that the peaceful development of cross-straits relationship is the common aspiration of the people on both sides of the Taiwan Straits.
这一年，北京获得第24届冬奥会举办权，人民币纳入国际货币基金组织特别提款权货币篮子，我国自主研制的C919大型客机总装下线，中国超级计算机破世界纪录蝉联“六连冠”，我国科学家研制的暗物质探测卫星发射升空，屠呦呦成为我国首位获得诺贝尔奖的科学家......
In the year of 2015, Beijing won the bid for hosting the 24th Winter Olympic Games, Chinese currency Renminbi was approved by the IMF to be a global reserve currency in the Special Drawing Right basket, our self-developed C919 jetliner was put on production line, China’s super computer claimed top position for the 6th consecutive year, which is a world record, the satellite exploring dark matter, developed by our scientists, was launched into space successfully, Tu Youyou became our first Chinese scientist winning a Nobel Prize ...
这说明，只要坚持，梦想总是可以实现的。
All those facts have illustrated that dreams will eventually come true with determined perseverance.
这一年，我们有欣喜，也有悲伤。
In the year of 2015, we've not only experienced cheerful occasions but have also gone through sorrows.
“东方之星”号客轮翻沉、天津港特别重大火灾爆炸、深圳滑坡等事故造成了不少同胞失去了生命，
Many of our compatriots lost their lives in tragic incidents like the “Eastern Star” cruise ship wreck, the serious fire and blast in the port of Tianjin, and in the landslide in Shenzhen.
还有我们的同胞被恐怖分子残忍杀害，
Some of our compatriots were also brutally murdered by terrorists.
令人深感痛心。
Our hearts were broken by those tragedies.
我们怀念他们，愿逝者安息、生者安康！
May the deceased rest in peace and the living remain safe and sound!
群众的生活中还有一些困难和烦恼。
There are still many difficulties and hardships in people's daily lives.
党和政府一定会继续努力，切实保障人民生命财产安全、保障人民生活改善、保障人民身体健康。
The Communist Party of China and the Chinese government will continue the efforts to ensure that the safety of people's lives and properties are protected, and people's rights to improved livelihood and physical health are guaranteed.
同志们、朋友们，女士们、先生们！
Comrades, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
2016年是我国进入全面建成小康社会决胜阶段的开局之年。
2016 marks the beginning of the decisive phase in the national effort to build China into a comprehensive moderately prosperous society.
中共十八届五中全会明确了未来5年我国发展的方向。
The fifth plenum of the 18th Congress of the Communist Party of China has identified clearly the direction of development over the next five years.
前景令人鼓舞、催人奋进，但幸福不会从天降。
The prospects are encouraging.
我们要树立必胜信念、继续埋头苦干，贯彻创新、协调、绿色、开放、共享的发展理念，着力推进结构性改革，
However, happiness will not just fall from heaven, we must empower ourselves with strong faith and confidence, continue to work hard, to seek innovative, coordinated and green development that is also open and shared by all.
着力推进改革开放，着力促进社会公平正义，着力营造政治上的绿水青山，为全面建成小康社会决胜阶段开好局、起好步。
We will further advance structural reforms, continue the reform and opening up process, promote social fairness and justice, build a clean and healthy political environment, and lay a solid foundation for the decisive stage in building China into a moderately prosperous society.
全面建成小康社会，13亿人要携手前进。
To build China into a comprehensive moderately prosperous society, we need the effort of all the 1.3 billion people in this country.
让几千万农村贫困人口生活好起来，是我心中的牵挂。
It remains a moral and emotional obligation for me to get the tens of millions of rural population out of poverty and to let them lead a decent life.
我们吹响了打赢扶贫攻坚战的号角，全党全国要勠力同心，着力补齐这块短板，确保农村所有贫困人口如期摆脱贫困。
Now the party and the nation have been mobilized to make concerted effort for the victory of the decisive battle over poverty.
对所有困难群众，我们都要关爱，让他们从内心感受到温暖。
To all those still live in difficulty, we will let them know that we do care, and we will let them feel the warmth of heart, from ours to theirs.
我们只有一个地球，这是各国人民共同的家园。
We have only one earth, this is the homeland of all peoples in the world.
这一年，我国领导人参加了不少国际会议，开展了不少外交活动，
In the past year, Chinese leaders have participated in quite a few international conferences, and conducted numerous diplomatic activities for the well being of our common home.
推动“一带一路”建设取得实质性进展，
Our efforts to promote the "Belt and Road" initiative have achieved tangible results.
参与了联合国2030年可持续发展议程、应对全球气候变化等国际事务。
We have participated in the discussion of the UN 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development, as well as a series of world affairs concerning global climate change.
世界那么大，问题那么多，国际社会期待听到中国声音、看到中国方案，中国不能缺席。
The world is too big, and challenges are too many, to go without the voice from China being heard, without solution ideas from China being shared, without the involvement of China being needed.
面对身陷苦难和战火的人们，我们要有悲悯和同情，更要有责任和行动。
To those suffering from hardships and wars, we not only express our sympathy and solidarity, but will also take duty bound actions to provide help.
中国将永远向世界敞开怀抱，也将尽己所能向面临困境的人们伸出援手，
China will, as always, open its arms to embrace the world, and offer its helping hands to those in need.
让我们的“朋友圈”越来越大。
Our circle of friends will grow bigger.
我衷心希望，国际社会共同努力，多一份平和，多一份合作，变对抗为合作，化干戈为玉帛，共同构建各国人民共有共享的人类命运共同体。
I sincerely hope that the international community will make concerted effort to make peace, relate to each other in cooperation rather than confrontation; beat swords into plowshares and to build a community of common destiny of all mankind.