国家主席习近平发表二〇二〇年新年贺词
Chinese President Xi Jinping Delivers New Year Speech
2019年12月31日
December 31, 2019
同志们，朋友们，女士们，先生们，
Comrades, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
2020年就要到了，我在首都北京向大家送上新年的美好祝福！
The year 2020 is arriving. From China’s capital Beijing, I’d like to extend my New Year wishes to you all!
2019年，我们用汗水浇灌收获，以实干笃定前行。
In 2019, we sweated and we toiled as we pressed ahead with concrete efforts for achievements.
高质量发展平稳推进，我国国内生产总值预计将接近100万亿元人民币、人均将迈上1万美元的台阶。
Thanks to our steady pursuit of high-quality development, China’s GDP is expected to edge close to 100 trillion yuan with per capita figure reaching the level of 10,000 US dollars.
三大攻坚战取得关键进展。
Significant breakthroughs have been achieved in three tough battles.
京津冀协同发展、长江经济带发展、粤港澳大湾区建设、长三角一体化发展按下快进键，黄河流域生态保护和高质量发展成为国家战略。
Coordinated regional development accelerated further including in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region, the Yangtze River Economic Belt, the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, and the Yangtze River Delta. Ecological protection and high-quality development in the Yellow River basin have become national strategies.
全国将有340个左右贫困县摘帽、1000多万人实现脱贫。
About 340 impoverished counties and more than 10 million people have been lifted out of poverty.
嫦娥四号在人类历史上第一次登陆月球背面，长征五号遥三运载火箭成功发射，雪龙2号首航南极，北斗导航全球组网进入冲刺期，5G商用加速推出，北京大兴国际机场“凤凰展翅”......
Our lunar probe Chang’e-4, for the first time in human history, landed on the far side of the moon; the Long March-5 Y3 rocket was successfully launched; the Xuelong 2 icebreaker set sail on its maiden voyage for the Antarctic; the construction of the global network of the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System is sprinting towards the finish line; the commercial application of 5G technology is accelerating; the Beijing Daxing International Airport “phoenix spreads its wings”...
这些成就凝结着新时代奋斗者的心血和汗水，彰显了不同凡响的中国风采、中国力量。
all these achievements are the result of the efforts and sweat of those who strive in the new era, and they demonstrate the extraordinary Chinese splendor and Chinese strength.
一年来，改革开放不断催生发展活力。
Over the past year, reform and opening-up has continuously generated vigor for development.
党和国家机构改革圆满完成。
The reform of Party and government institutions has been successfully completed.
增设一批自由贸易试验区和上海自由贸易试验区新片区。
We’ve set up another batch of pilot Free Trade Zones, and expanded the one in Shanghai.
科创板顺利启动推进。
The Science and Technology Innovation Board was launched smoothly.
减税降费总额超过2万亿元。个人所得税起征点提高了，老百姓常用的许多药品降价了，网络提速降费使刷屏更快了，垃圾分类引领着低碳生活新时尚。
We’ve cut taxes and fees by more than 2 trillion yuan, and raised the individual income tax threshold. Many types of commonly-used medicines have seen their prices drop. Cheaper and faster internet connection has enabled faster flow of information. Garbage sorting is leading the new trend of a low-carbon lifestyle.
“基层减负年”让基层干部轻装上阵。
This year we’ve also streamlined the work of officials at the grassroots level.
放眼神州大地，处处都有新变化新气象。
New changes are taking place everywhere and the country is taking on a fresh look.
一年来，国防和军队改革扎实推进，人民军队展现出新时代强军风貌。
Over the past year, we have steadily pushed forward reforms in our national defense and military systems. The armed forces have taken on a new look of a strong army in the new era.
我们进行国庆大阅兵，举行海军、空军成立70周年庆祝活动，举办第七届世界军人运动会。
We held a grand military parade on National Day, celebrated the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Navy and the Air Force, and also hosted the 7th Military World Games.
首艘国产航母正式列装。
The country’s first self-developed aircraft carrier was commissioned.
人民子弟兵永远是保卫祖国的钢铁长城，让我们向守护家园的忠诚卫士们致敬！
The people’s army will always serve as a great wall of steel that guards our country. Let’s salute those loyal soldiers who safeguard our home.
2019年，最难忘的是隆重庆祝新中国成立70周年。
The most memorable moment of 2019 was the celebrations for the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China.
我们为共和国70年的辉煌成就喝彩，被爱国主义的硬核力量震撼。
We cheered for the glorious achievements China has made over the past 70 years, and were overwhelmed by the sheer force of patriotism.
阅兵方阵威武雄壮，群众游行激情飞扬，天安门广场成了欢乐的海洋。
The formations during the military parade were powerful, and the mass pageant thrilling. Tian’anmen Square was turned into a sea of happiness.
大江南北披上红色盛装，人们脸上洋溢着自豪的笑容，《我和我的祖国》在大街小巷传唱。
All of China was arrayed in red with proud smiles on all faces as the song “My Motherland and I” played throughout the streets and alleys.
爱国主义情感让我们热泪盈眶，爱国主义精神构筑起民族的脊梁。
Patriotism feelings brought tears to our eyes, and patriotism spirit forms the backbone of the Chinese nation.
这一切，汇聚成礼赞新中国、奋斗新时代的前进洪流，给我们增添了无穷力量。
All these merge into a surging current that sings an ode to New China and inspires us to work harder in the new era, filling us with boundless energy.
一年来，我去了不少地方。
Over the past year, I have visited many places.
雄安新区画卷徐徐铺展，天津港蓬勃兴盛，北京城市副中心生机勃发，内蒙古大草原壮美亮丽，河西走廊穿越千年、历久弥新，九曲黄河天高水阔、雄浑安澜，黄浦江两岸物阜民丰、流光溢彩......
Construction of Xiong’an New Area is progressing, Tianjin Port is booming, Beijing’s sub-center is thriving, grasslands in Inner Mongolia are splendid, the Hexi Corridor, after thousands of years, is teeming with new life. Along the winding and magnificent Yellow River, the sky is high and the waters are wide; on both banks of the Huangpu River, there is plenty and prosperity, and ribbons of light shine in the night.
祖国各地一派欣欣向荣的景象。
Everything is flourishing across our motherland.
我沿着中国革命的征程砥砺初心。
I traced the routes of China’s revolution to remain true to my original mission.
从江西于都红军长征集结出发地到河南新县鄂豫皖苏区首府革命博物馆，从甘肃高台西路军纪念碑到北京香山革命纪念地，每个地方都让我思绪万千，初心和使命是我们走好新时代长征路的不竭动力。
From Yudu in Jiangxi Province where the Red Army gathered for their Long March, to the Revolution Museum in Xinxian County in Henan Province, the former capital of the Hubei-Henan-Anhui revolutionary base, from the Monument to the West Route Army in Gaotai, Gansu Province, to the revolutionary memorial site in the Fragrant Hills in Beijing, all these places aroused many feelings and thoughts in my mind. Our original aspiration and mission are our inexhaustible source of motivation during our Long March of the new era.
同往常一样，我无论多忙，都要抽时间到乡亲们中走一走看一看。
As usual, no matter how busy I was, I spent time visiting people in the countryside.
大家跟我说了很多心里话，我一直记在心上。
They shared many of their innermost thoughts with me; I always keep them in mind.
云南贡山独龙族群众、福建寿宁县下党乡的乡亲、“王杰班”全体战士、北京体育大学研究生冠军班同学、澳门小朋友和义工老人，给我写了信。
I’ve also received letters from villagers of the Dulong ethnic group in Gongshan, Yunnan Province; residents of Xiadang township, Shouning County in Fujian Province; soldiers of the Wang Jie Squad; the graduate students of the Class of Champions at Beijing Sport University; and children and senior volunteers from Macao.
我在回信中肯定了大家取得的成绩，也表达了良好祝愿。
In my reply letters, I applauded the achievements they’ve made and sent my best wishes.
一年来，许多人和事感动着我们。
Over the past year, many people and their stories touched us deeply.
一辈子深藏功名、初心不改的张富清，把青春和生命献给脱贫事业的黄文秀，为救火而捐躯的四川木里31名勇士，用自己身体保护战友的杜富国，以十一连胜夺取世界杯冠军的中国女排......
Zhang Fuqing has kept a low profile and stayed true to his original heart despite the great contributions he’s made to the nation; Huang Wenxiu dedicated her youth and life to poverty alleviation; 31 fire fighters sacrificed their lives in the line of duty in Muli, Sichuan Province; Du Fuguo sacrificed himself to protect his teammates; and China’s Women’s National Volleyball Team won the World Cup in an eleven-match winning streak.
许许多多无怨无悔、倾情奉献的无名英雄，他们以普通人的平凡书写了不平凡的人生。
They are dedicated unsung heroes, with no complaints or regrets. They are ordinary people living extraordinary lives.
2019年，中国继续张开双臂拥抱世界。
In the year of 2019, China continued to open its arms wide to embrace the world.
我们主办了第二届“一带一路”国际合作高峰论坛、北京世界园艺博览会、亚洲文明对话大会、第二届中国国际进口博览会，向世界展示了一个文明、开放、包容的中国。
We hosted the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, the International Horticultural Exhibition, the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations, and the second China International Import Expo, showcasing a civilized, open and inclusive China to the rest of the world.
我同很多国家元首和政府首脑会晤，分享了中国主张，增进了友谊，深化了共识。
I held meetings with many heads of state and government, sharing with them China’s proposals, promoting friendship and deepening consensus.
世界上又有一些国家同我国建交，我国建交国达到180个。
A few countries established diplomatic ties with China, increasing the number of countries that have official ties with us to 180.
我们的朋友遍天下！
We have friends in every corner of the world.
2020年是具有里程碑意义的一年。
2020 will be a year of milestone significance.
我们将全面建成小康社会，实现第一个百年奋斗目标。2020年也是脱贫攻坚决战决胜之年。
We will finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and realize the first centenary goal. 2020 will also be a year of decisive victory for the elimination of poverty.
冲锋号已经吹响。
The bugle has sounded.
我们要万众一心加油干，越是艰险越向前，把短板补得再扎实一些，把基础打得再牢靠一些，坚决打赢脱贫攻坚战，如期实现现行标准下农村贫困人口全部脱贫、贫困县全部摘帽。
We shall “add oil” all of one heart. The greater the difficulties, the further we advance, strengthening our weak links even more and laying a more solid foundation to win the hard battle with determination against poverty, to lift all impoverished rural residents and counties out of poverty by current standards as scheduled.
前几天，我出席了澳门回归祖国20周年庆祝活动，我为澳门繁荣稳定感到欣慰。
Several days ago, I attended the celebrations marking the 20th anniversary of Macao’s return to the motherland and felt heartened for the prosperity and stability in Macao.
澳门的成功实践表明，“一国两制”完全行得通、办得到、得人心。
The successful practice of Macao indicates that the principle of “One Country, Two Systems” is fully applicable, achievable, and popular.
近几个月来，香港局势牵动着大家的心。
In recent months, our hearts have been concerned about the situation in Hong Kong.
没有和谐稳定的环境，怎会有安居乐业的家园！真诚希望香港好、香港同胞好。
Without a harmonious and stable environment, how can people live in peace and enjoy their work! I sincerely wish Hong Kong well and our Hong Kong compatriots well.
香港繁荣稳定是香港同胞的心愿，也是祖国人民的期盼。
Hong Kong’s prosperity and stability is the wish of Hong Kong compatriots and the expectation of our motherland.
历史长河奔腾不息，有风平浪静，也有波涛汹涌。
Human history, like a river, runs forever, witnessing both peaceful moments and great disturbances.
我们不惧风雨，也不畏险阻。
We are not afraid of storms and dangers and barriers.
中国将坚定不移走和平发展道路，坚定不移维护世界和平、促进共同发展。
China is determined to walk along the road of peaceful development and will resolutely safeguard world peace and promote common development.
我们愿同世界各国人民携起手来，积极共建“一带一路”，推动构建人类命运共同体，为创造人类美好未来而不懈努力。
We are willing to join hands with people of all countries in the world to build together the “Belt and Road Initiative”, and push forward the building of a community with a shared future for mankind, and make unremitting efforts for the creation of a beautiful future.
此时此刻，还有许多人在坚守岗位，许多人在守护平安，许多人在辛勤劳作。
At this moment, many of you are at your posts, many of you are safeguarding peace and security, and many of you are working tirelessly.
大家辛苦了！
Your hard work is greatly appreciated.
让我们只争朝夕，不负韶华，共同迎接2020年的到来。
Let’s seize the day and live it to the full, and greet the arrival of the year 2020 together.
祝大家新年快乐！
I wish you all a happy new year!