国家主席习近平发表二〇二一年新年贺词
Xi Jinping's 2021 New Year address
大家好！
Comrades, friends, ladies and gentlemen, greetings to you all!
2021年的脚步越来越近，我在北京向大家致以新年的美好祝福！
The year 2021 is arriving. From China's capital Beijing, I extend my New Year wishes to you all!
2020年是极不平凡的一年。
2020 was an extraordinary year.
面对突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情，我们以人民至上、生命至上诠释了人间大爱，用众志成城、坚忍不拔书写了抗疫史诗。
Facing the sudden coronavirus pandemic, we put people and their lives first to interpret the great love among humans. With solidarity and resilience, we wrote the epic of our fight against the pandemic.
在共克时艰的日子里，有逆行出征的豪迈，有顽强不屈的坚守，有患难与共的担当，有英勇无畏的牺牲，有守望相助的感动。
During the days when we addressed the hardships together, we saw the heroic spirit of marching straight to the frontlines, holding posts with tenacity, taking responsibility to get through thick and thin, sacrifices with bravery, and touching moments of helping each other.
从白衣天使到人民子弟兵，从科研人员到社区工作者，从志愿者到工程建设者，从古稀老人到“90后”、“00后”青年一代，无数人以生命赴使命、用挚爱护苍生，将涓滴之力汇聚成磅礴伟力，构筑起守护生命的铜墙铁壁。
From medical workers to the people's army, from scientific researchers to community workers, from volunteers to those who built the projects, from seniors to youths born after the 1990s and 2000s, numerous people fulfilled their missions at the cost of their lives and protected humanity with sincere love. They pooled their drops of strength into tremendous power and built an iron wall to safeguard lives.
一个个义无反顾的身影，一次次心手相连的接力，一幕幕感人至深的场景，生动展示了伟大抗疫精神。
Many figures marched ahead without hesitation, many relays were accomplished hand in hand, many scenes showed touching moments, all these vividly illustrate the great spirit of fighting against the pandemic.
平凡铸就伟大，英雄来自人民。
Greatness is forged in the ordinary. Heroes come from the people.
每个人都了不起！
Every person is remarkable!
向所有不幸感染的病患者表示慰问！
Our sympathy goes to all the unfortunate ones infected with the coronavirus!
向所有平凡的英雄致敬！我为伟大的祖国和人民而骄傲，为自强不息的民族精神而自豪！
We salute all the ordinary heroes! I am proud of our great motherland and people, as well as the unyielding national spirit.
艰难方显勇毅，磨砺始得玉成。
Only in hard times can courage and perseverance be manifested. Only after polishing can a piece of jade be finer.
我们克服疫情影响，统筹疫情防控和经济社会发展取得重大成果。
We overcame the impact of the pandemic, and made great achievements in coordinating prevention and control and in economic and social development.
“十三五”圆满收官，“十四五”全面擘画。
The 13th Five-Year Plan has been accomplished in full. The 14th Five-Year Plan is being comprehensively formulated.
新发展格局加快构建，高质量发展深入实施。
We are accelerating the pace to set up a new pattern for development, and are deeply implementing high-quality development.
我国在世界主要经济体中率先实现正增长，预计2020年国内生产总值迈上百万亿元新台阶。
China is the first major economy worldwide to achieve positive growth, and its GDP in 2020 is expected to step up to a new level of 100 trillion yuan.
粮食生产喜获“十七连丰”。
China has seen a good harvest in grain production for 17 years in a row.
“天问一号”、“嫦娥五号”、“奋斗者”号等科学探测实现重大突破。
China has seen breakthroughs in scientific explorations like the Tianwen-1 (Mars mission), Chang'e-5 (lunar probe), and Fendouzhe (deep-sea manned submersible).
海南自由贸易港建设蓬勃展开。
Construction of the Hainan Free Trade Port is proceeding with vigor.
我们还抵御了严重洪涝灾害，广大军民不畏艰险，同心协力抗洪救灾，努力把损失降到了最低。
We also defeated severe flooding. With the military and civilians heedless of danger and difficulty, and standing in unity, we managed to minimize the damage of the floods.
我到13个省区市考察时欣喜看到，大家认真细致落实防疫措施，争分夺秒复工复产，全力以赴创新创造，神州大地自信自强、充满韧劲，一派只争朝夕、生机勃勃的景象。
I inspected 13 provincial-level regions and was glad to see people carefully implementing coronavirus prevention and control measures, racing against time to resume work and production, and sparing no efforts to advance innovation. Everywhere were vibrant scenes of confident, resilient people making the most of every minute.
2020年，全面建成小康社会取得伟大历史性成就，决战脱贫攻坚取得决定性胜利。
In 2020, China made the historic achievement of establishing a moderately prosperous society in all respects and achieved decisive success in eradicating extreme poverty.
我们向深度贫困堡垒发起总攻，啃下了最难啃的“硬骨头”。
We launched the final assault on the fortress of entrenched rural poverty, and cracked this "hardest nut."
历经8年，现行标准下近1亿农村贫困人口全部脱贫，832个贫困县全部摘帽。
Through 8 years, under the current standard, China has eradicated extreme poverty for the nearly 100 million rural people affected, and all the 832 impoverished counties have shaken off poverty.
这些年，我去了全国14个集中连片特困地区，乡亲们愚公移山的干劲，广大扶贫干部倾情投入的奉献，时常浮现在脑海。
These years, I have visited 14 contiguous areas of dire poverty. The unremitting efforts of the folks and the wholehearted contribution of the poverty-eradication cadres often come to my mind.
我们还要咬定青山不放松，脚踏实地加油干，努力绘就乡村振兴的壮美画卷，朝着共同富裕的目标稳步前行。
We still need to stay tenacious like a bamboo deeply rooted in the rocks, keep our feet on the ground, and work hard to paint a magnificent picture of rural vitalization, and steadily march ahead towards the goal of common prosperity.
今年，我们隆重庆祝深圳等经济特区建立40周年、上海浦东开发开放30周年。
This year, we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, among others, and 30 years of the development and opening-up of Pudong in Shanghai.
置身春潮涌动的南海之滨、绚丽多姿的黄浦江畔，令人百感交集，先行先试变成了示范引领，探索创新成为了创新引领。
As I stood on the southern coast as the spring tide surged and on the colorful bank of the Huangpu River, my mind was filled with a myriad of thoughts. Pilot trials have become models and leading forces, and explorations to innovate have become leading forces of innovation.
改革开放创造了发展奇迹，今后还要以更大气魄深化改革、扩大开放，续写更多“春天的故事”。
The opening-up and reform has created miracles of development. In the future, we should further deepen reform and expand opening-up with greater courage, and create more "Stories of Spring."
大道不孤，天下一家。
We are not alone on the Great Way and the whole world is one family.
经历了一年来的风雨，我们比任何时候都更加深切体会到人类命运共同体的意义。
After a year of hardship, we can understand more than ever the significance of a community with a shared future for mankind.
我同国际上新老朋友进行了多次通话，出席了多场“云会议”，谈得最多的就是和衷共济、团结抗疫。
I had many phone calls with friends from the international community, both old and new, and attended many "cloud conferences." What we discussed most was staying united to combat the pandemic.
疫情防控任重道远。
We still have a long way to go in pandemic prevention and control.
世界各国人民要携起手来，风雨同舟，早日驱散疫情的阴霾，努力建设更加美好的地球家园。
People from all over the world should join hands and support each other to early dispel the gloom of the pandemic and strive for a better "Earth home."
2021年是中国共产党百年华诞。
2021 will see the 100th birthday of the Communist Party of China.
百年征程波澜壮阔，百年初心历久弥坚。
Its 100-year journey surges forward with great momentum. Its original aspiration remains even firmer one hundred years later.
从上海石库门到嘉兴南湖，一艘小小红船承载着人民的重托、民族的希望，越过急流险滩，穿过惊涛骇浪，成为领航中国行稳致远的巍巍巨轮。
From Shikumen in Shanghai to the South Lake in Jiaxing City, the small red boat (where the first CPC congress concluded) bore the great trust of the people and the hope of the nation. The boat has sailed through turbulent rivers and treacherous shoals, and has voyaged across violent tidal waves, becoming a great ship that navigates China's stable and long-term development.
胸怀千秋伟业，恰是百年风华。
The CPC bears its eternal great cause in mind, and the centenary only ushers in the prime of life.
我们秉持以人民为中心，永葆初心、牢记使命，乘风破浪、扬帆远航，一定能实现中华民族伟大复兴。
We adhere to putting people at the center, stay true to our original aspiration, keep our mission well in mind, break the waves and sail out for our journey ahead, and we will certainly realize the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
站在“两个一百年”的历史交汇点，全面建设社会主义现代化国家新征程即将开启。
At the historic crossroad of the "Two Centenary Goals," the new journey of comprehensively building a modern socialist country is about to start.
征途漫漫，惟有奋斗。
The road ahead is long; striving is the only way forward.
我们通过奋斗，披荆斩棘，走过了万水千山。
We have strived, broken through brambles and thorns, and crossed ten thousand rivers and thousands of mountains.
我们还要继续奋斗，勇往直前，创造更加灿烂的辉煌！
We will continue to strive, march ahead with courage, and create brighter glory!
此时此刻，华灯初上，万家团圆。
At just this moment, the festive lanterns have been lit, and family members gather for reunion.
新年将至，惟愿山河锦绣、国泰民安！惟愿和顺致祥、幸福美满！
The New Year is coming. I wish our land to be splendid, our country to be prosperous, and our people to live in peace. I wish you all a harmonious, smooth and auspicious year, full of happiness!
谢谢大家！
Thank you!