Creating ecosystem for an AI highland 
2019-06-19
SHANGHAI has “initially taken a leading position” on the development of artificial intelligence, which will boost economic development and innovation, and change people’s daily lives, according to top government officials.
Shanghai is going to establish its own ecosystem to boost AI development to become an “AI highland” nationwide.
A top-level AI event, the World’s Artificial Intelligence Conference, will be held in the city in August, showcasing the latest AI technology and attracting executives including Elon Musk from Tesla.
“Shanghai has initially taken a leading position on AI nationwide,” said Wu Qing, vice mayor of Shanghai. “We will continue to push the Shanghai Program on AI for future development.”
The city is well-positioned for AI development, thanks to enterprise numbers, world-class research platforms, various application scenes and big data volume, said senior government officials from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the Ministry of Science and Technology as well as local government bureaus.
Currently, Shanghai has more than 1,000 AI core firms and established two AI zones in Xuhui’s Binjiang area and Zhangjiang of the Pudong New Area.
Giants such as Microsoft, Amazon and BAT (Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent) have all set up facilities in Shanghai, some of them are global research centers for AI.
Shanghai has unique advantages for developing AI, such as big-volume data resources, advanced industries such as automotive and aerospace and leading research and academy resources, said Zhu Xiumei, vice director of science bureau of MIIT.
WAIC will be held in the Expo Center in the Pudong New Area between August 29 and 31.
AI applications covering education, health care, urban management, industrial, finance and business will be displayed in exhibition space over 15,000 square meters. Self-driving applications and technologies will be displayed in a special zone with L4 or Level 4 autonomous driving.
