Facebook launches digital currency 
2019-06-19
Facebook is leaping into the world of cryptocurrency with its own digital money, designed to let people save, send or spend money as easily as firing off text messages.
Libra — described as “a new global currency” — was unveiled yesterday in a new initiative in payments for the world’s biggest social network with the potential to bring cryptocurrency out of the shadows and into the mainstream.
Facebook and some two dozen partners released a prototype of Libra as an open source code to be used by developers interested in weaving it into apps, services or businesses ahead of a rollout as global digital money next year.
An eponymous nonprofit association based in Geneva will oversee the blockchain-based Libra, maintaining a real-world asset reserve to keep its value stable.
The initiative has the potential to allow more than a billion “unbanked” people around the world access to online commerce and financial services, said Libra Association head of policy and communications Dante Disparte.
“We believe if you give people access to money and opportunity at the lowest cost, the way the internet itself did in the past with information, you can create a lot more stability than we have had up until now,” Disparte said.
Libra Association debuted with 28 members, including Mastercard, Visa, Stripe, Kiva, PayPal, Lyft, Uber and Women’s World Banking.
“Sending money to your friend shouldn’t be harder than getting them an Uber ride home,” said Uber’s head of payments and risk Peter Hazlehurst.
“Libra has the potential to bridge the gap between traditional financial networks and new digital currency technology while reducing costs.”
Facebook will be just one voice among many in the association but is separately building a digital wallet called Calibra.
“We view this as a complement to Facebook’s mission to link people wherever they are; that includes allowing them to exchange value,” Calibra’s vice president of operations Tomer Barel said.
