Focus on innovation, IPR at tech fair 
2019-04-19
SHANGHAI will focus on building a new pattern of open innovation, bring together global resources and talent, and strengthen in­tellectual property protection, the city’s Mayor Ying Yong said yesterday.
He was speaking at the seventh China (Shanghai) International Technology Fair, which opened yesterday at the Shanghai World Expo Exhibition and Convention Center and will continue till tomorrow.
The fair is exhibiting leading international technologies with special emphasis on the intellec­tual property protection.
The CSITF, which is cohosted by the Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Science and Technol­ogy, State Intellectual Property Office and Shanghai Municipal Government, is a national-level fair specifically focused on inter­national technology trade.
Mayor Ying said that innova­tion has always been the primary driving force for high-quality development, and Shanghai is speeding up its development as an international center for econ­omy, finance, trade, shipping, technology as well as become a modern metropolis with global influence.
“We will enhance our in­novation abilities, aim at the cutting-edge technologies and keep in line with the strategic needs of the country, and launch a batch of special projects and plans to achieve breakthroughs,” Ying said.
Shanghai will especially pro­mote technology trade and innovation cooperation, Ying told the assembled guests.
He Zhimin, deputy director of the State Intellectual Property Of­fice, said that intellectual property rights, as a necessity for innova­tion-driven development and a standard for international trade, are crucial to enhance China’s international competitiveness, and are playing an increasingly important role in promoting the reform and opening-up and the Belt and Road Initiative.
In 2018, the State Intellectual Property Office completed its reorganization in line with the reforms suggested by the central and state institutions. The office has promoted the management of patents, trademarks and in­tegrated circuit design, and has enhanced the protection of intel­lectual property rights.
In line with Shanghai’s 22 measures on promoting the devel­opment of artificial intelligence, which was released recently, AIhas also become one of the high­lights of the fair this year.
There is an immersive AIex­perience platform that brings together advanced technologies and leading companies in the field.
Shanghai Keenon Robotics Co brought their “Peanut” delivery robots, which are being used by HaiDiLao Hotpot.
Yunji Technology’s intelligent robot for commercial service, “Run,” was designed mainly for use in hotels. It can take the el­evator on its own, deliver goods and lead the way. They have been working with hotel groups including Marriott Hotel, Inter­Continental Hotels Group, Ascott Hotel, and Wyndham Hotels.
Xiaoxiaoniu Creative Technolo­gies exhibited their patented Wonder Painter technology, which can turn drawings into vivid animations.
It has cooperated with South Korea’s LG, with the Wonder Painter Software Development Kit being used in LGU+ for sto­rytelling, and Baidu’s AIartist online game that is powered by Wonder Painter Cloud.
The fair has become an important platform for ex­hibiting leading technologies, linking innovation resources, and promoting communication and cooperation among the small and medium-sized innovation enterprises, Ying said.
“We hope to make full use of the innovative resources and the support of all parties to make the CSITF an international event as well as an important window for deepening international cooperation on innovation and boosting the development of technology trade,” Ying said.
