Innovative practices on display 
2019-11-08
Over 30 global enterprises are showcasing their innovative practices on the sidelines of the China International Import Expo.
The exhibition, organized by Shanghai Daily, Eastday.com and The Paper, opened on November 1 at Shanghai Tower, the city’s tallest building and the world’s second-tallest, in Lujiazui financial zone. It will run through today.
Dozens of journalists from around the world reporting on the CIIE visited the exhibition yesterday. Senior officials with some of the enterprises shared their visions in helping Shanghai’s role in the global innovation landscape.
With texts, photos and samples on display on the building’s B2 floor, the exhibition looks at the companies’ innovative achievements, showcasing their involvement in the city’s infrastructure projects, engagement in local innovation networks and their efforts in promoting sustainable communities.
Honeywell delivers high-tech solutions ranging from aerospace to control technologies for buildings and industry, and performance materials, as well as the Internet of Things, said Lydia Lu, vice president of communications of Honeywell Asia High Growth Regions.
As a major CIIE exhibitor, Honeywell mainly displays connected aircraft, smart construction, intelligent manufacturing, connect supply chain and safety production solutions. Many of the technologies are on display in China for the first time.
Shanghai is home to Honeywell’s Asia-Pacific headquarters and its R&D center. It cooperates with local universities, research institutions and firms to promote the transformation of technological achievements into real products.
UFI Filters, a global leader in filtration technology and thermal management, is displaying its UFI Multitube, a new engine air filter to help cut emissions.
UFI chose Shanghai as one of its innovation centers because China is the largest auto market, where the new-energy vehicle sector and concepts develop faster than in other countries, said Carlo Nizia, supervisor of the board of directors of UFI Filters (Shanghai) Co.
Fujitsu has been cooperating with Changan Automobile, a domestic leader, over the past seven years to create a set of smart manufacturing solutions suitable for Chinese automobile enterprises, said Sun Rui, assistant manager in the tech firm’s marketing and community department.
Under a “World Without Waste” sustainable packaging vision, Coca-Cola China has created a series of rPET products, such as shoes, bags and coats made from recycled plastic bottles. A relief tent made with waste bottles was used in the Ya’an earthquake in 2013.
