Made in China: Samsung fends off rivals 
2019-11-25
Samsung plans to outsource a fifth of its smartphone production to China next year to compete with rivals such as Huawei and Xiaomi.
Samsung Electronics, which shut its last in-house Chinese smartphone factory in October, is quietly moving production of some Galaxy A models to contractors such as Wingtech, which are little known outside China.
Samsung has been coy about the volumes involved but sources said the South Korean tech giant plans to ship some 60 million phones made in China by original design manufacturers (ODMs) next year out of a total of about 300 million devices.
Wingtech and other ODMs make phones for multiple brands — including Huawei, Xiaomi and Oppo — giving them the economies of scale to keep costs down, and the nimble contractors can develop and produce new budget phones quickly.
Samsung scrapped its flagship Galaxy Note 7 in 2016 after reports that the expensive phones were catching fire and delayed the launch of its folding phone this year after screen defects were identified.
But with margins razor thin for budget smartphones, people familiar with Samsung’s strategy say it has little choice but to follow rivals and use Chinese ODMs to shave costs.
“This is an inevitable strategy,” a source with knowledge of Samsung’s Chinese operations said.
Samsung said in a statement to Reuters that it has been making limited lines of smartphones outside its own plants to broaden its existing portfolio and “ensure efficient management in the market.” It declined to say how many Samsung phones are made by ODMs and said future volumes had yet to be determined.
Wingtech did not respond to a request for comment.
Research firm Counterpoint says ODMs can procure all the components needed for US$100-US$250 smartphones for 10 percent to 15 percent less than major brands with their own factories in China.
Wingtech started making tablets and phones for Samsung in 2017, accounting for 3 percent of its smartphones. That’s expected to hit 8 percent, or 24 million units, this year, according to IHS Markit.
Samsung’s outsourcing plans involve its lower and mid-range Galaxy A series, with Wingtech having a hand in both design and production, sources said. The A6S, one of the models to be outsourced, costs from 1,299 yuan (US$185) in China.
While Samsung is anxious to remain global smartphone market leader, some analysts worry it might not be worth the risk given that profits in the budget phone business are scarce for all.
“Low-end phones are headache for Samsung,” said CW Chung, head of research at Nomura in South Korea.
Chung said they were now commodity products and it was “nonsense” to make them in-house. But he and other experts said if Samsung gave ODMs more volume, that could cut contractors’ costs further.
“If ODM firms become more competitive, rivals will be more competitive,” Tom Kang, an analyst at Counterpoint said, adding that once a company loses its expertise in making low-end phones by outsourcing, it is difficult to regain the know-how.
Chung said Samsung’s strategic shift signaled the declining manufacturing prowess of the company, once a low-cost Asian manufacturer and now the world’s top producer of high-end electrical consumer goods.
US rival Apple outsources production to Foxconn Technology, which has factories on Chinese mainland, but Apple still designs its phones in California.
Samsung said in an e-mail response that it will be involved in the oversight of the design and development of smartphones produced by ODMs.
Historically, Samsung has designed and produced almost all its phones in-house in vast factories in Vietnam and, more recently, India while winding down production in South Korea and China where labor costs more.
But Roh Tae-moon, the youngest executive to become a president at Samsung Electronics, is championing the new ODM strategy in his role as No. 2 at the mobile division, two people familiar with the matter said.
“It is crucial to cut costs to maintain competitiveness with Huawei and other Chinese handset makers,” said a Samsung insider who declined to be named.
Other South Korean firms have also embraced outsourcing. LG Electronics, whose smartphones have been losing money for several years, has said it plans to expand its ODM output from budget models to mid-priced phones.
“Smartphones have come down to a battle over costs. It’s a game of survival now,” said Kim Yong-serk, a former Samsung mobile executive who is a professor at South Korea’s Sungkyunkwan University.
