Chedi’s sanctuary of tranquility 
2019-05-23
AN alternative term for a Buddhist stupa is Chedi. It is mainly used in Thailand and typically refers to a place of meditation and naturally invokes peacefulness of mind. And that is what won’t fail you when you visit The Chedi Ninghai, which opened several months ago in Ningbo City in Zhejiang Province.
The Chedi Ninghai, managed by General Hotel Management Ltd, provides guests a tranquil and relaxing environment where the joys of calmness can be rediscovered in a backdrop of beauty and comfort.
“The Chedi Ninghai will redefine mild luxury and stay within the wealthy Jiangnan area,” Herman Foo, the hotel’s general manager, said. “By melting contemporary interpretation of Asian designs and distinctive local touches such as bamboo, The Chedi is committed to creating an inspiring and memorable experience for even the most discerning of travelers.”
A three-and-a-half-hour drive by car or a two-and-a-half-hour train journey from Shanghai and you’ll find The Chedi Ninghai nestled in the mountains and forests in east of Zhejiang.
It offers an ideal setting for both corporate events in a less formal environment and exclusive weekend getaways for intimate families and friends.
Close to the Ningbo Wushan Grottoes, the resort has its 100 villas, all independent with a spacious terrace, spread out in the mountains and enveloped by springs and brooks. All rooms feature ceiling-to-floor windows, while some overlook the lake and boast a full view of the bamboo forest, creating a perfect ambience of living in nature.
“Each GHM property is an original,” said the general manager, a 30-year -plus veteran of hospitality in his home country of Singapore, the Bintan Island of Indonesia and Chinese cities such as Shanghai, Sanya, Guangzhou, Wuhan, Chengdu and Zhengzhou.
“By building a symbiotic relationship between the hotel and local culture, GHM is able to provide every traveler with a genuine, close-up experience of the best each destination has to offer.”
A true escape from the hustle and bustle of city life, The Chedi Ninghai provides guests with an unrivalled lifestyle experience in an extraordinarily spacious and natural setting. Not only that, the hotel offers the finest cuisine and a vast variety of indoor and outdoor recreation options.
The resort’s Asian-inspired all-day-dining restaurant located inside the bamboo forest, the hilltop pool bar and a lake-overlooking lounge have jointly created one of the area’s unsurpassed culinary scenes.
Natural hot spring water, containing more than 20 rare minerals and microelements that meets medical themomineral water quality, is a popular choice to completely unwind.
Guests may choose to indulge in the villa’s bathtub, where the hot spring is piped into, or visit the resort’s hot spring center where outdoor and indoor pools are both available.
The Chedi Ninghai also runs an equestrian center where professional coaches and well-trained horses are available for adults and kids.
Collaborating with the American Quarter Horse Association, and recognized by the Beijing Turf & Equestrian Association, the equestrian center offers horse lovers, of every level of riding experience, a series of weekend lessons and seasonal camps.
But the resort has something for everyone and provides a long list of activities for guests to check out for themselves.
Classes are available in pottery craft, painting, bamboo plaiting, yoga and tai-chi in the forest, table football, pool and ping-pong in the recreation room, ocean ball pool in the kids club, as well as many other outdoor activities on the 1,500-square-meter lawn.
For others who prefer a more relaxed vacation, a stroll around the resort or a lounge on the spacious terrace surrounded by negative oxygen ion and wonderful skylines, is therapy in itself.
“As a mild luxury resort, we are very keen to provide more experience to meet a growing market demand in China for family-friendly facilities, particularly in Shanghai, Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces where taking road trips is extremely popular during the weekends and holidays,” Foo said. “And we are targeting high-end corporate event business during the weekdays as well.”
As the first property ever opened under the Chedi brand in China, the resort also tries to distinguish itself with its homely services that are most often described as quiet and modest, attentive without being intrusive, unnoticed but accompanied.
“Competition is growing intense as the gap between the hardware of hotels is getting closer these days,” the general manager said. “Good reputation comes from mouth-to-mouth and that is key for us. We believe a wholehearted service from our associates will bring our guests back again and again.”
Follow the official WeChat account and make your bookings, get 10 percent discount on your summer holiday plan. Meanwhile, purchase a surprise of the best deal package on WeChat shop such as afternoon tea, set menu and The Equestrian Course.
Sauteed diced abalone with black pepper and garlic. Located in Ninghai, meaning peaceful ocean, the seafood is daily common cooking material in the kitchen. The Chedi Ninghai select juicy and fat abalone to cook this dish in a fusion style.
