Top direct seller Amway celebrates 60th birthday 
2019-06-06
The world’s largest direct seller Amway has successfully wrapped up a grand gathering to commemorate its 60th birthday and recognize the most successful leaders in Amway’s global sales force. 
Approximately 3,500 Amway Business Owners from nearly 50 countries and regions speaking 23 languages gathered in Las Vegas, Nevada, during May 16 to 22 to celebrate the exciting occasion. 
As the world’s largest direct seller, Amway continues to focus on driving growth through social media, product personalization and innovation. 
“Transformational change in social, digital and product innovation — especially in health and wellness — will help Amway be even more competitive in a rapidly changing global marketplace and support the long-term success of our Amway Business Owners,” said Doug DeVos, co-chairman of Amway. 
A number of new enterprise digital platforms and social capabilities are already in place to help Amway Business Owners provide their customers with easy, personalized experiences. 
For example the Artistry Virtual Beauty app allows users to “try on” the brand’s color cosmetics and take a skin-care assessment to receive personalized product recommendations based on their skin needs.
Amway is also leveraging its expertise in nutrition and beauty to develop more products for young consumers and those who aspire to stay young, especially those who seek more natural and personalized products.
These products and programs vary globally depending on local trends and include examples such as its new trendy and limited edition makeup and specialty bath collection brand Artistry Studio, and the Nutrilite Traceability Program to help sales people and consumers keep track of every ingredient in Nutrilite vitamins and supplements along every step of the ingredient journey.  
This year Amway welcomes its first chief executive officer from outside of the family, Milind Pant.
Formerly president of Pizza Hut International at Yum! Pant reports directly to, and holds a seat on, Amway’s Board. This is a new move for Amway, a family-run business since its beginning in 1959.
“Amway is a perfect fit for so many of today’s key global trends,” said Pant. “Communities of shared interest thrive online with the increasing role of social influencers, customers seek easy and personalized experiences, and the gig economy offers everyone an opportunity to work differently and earn extra income. Amway is poised to capitalize on these trends as we move forward into our next 60 years.” 
 Amway, a business started by Jay Van Andel and Rich DeVos, will continue to be family-owned and family-led. Pant will lead the strategy to provide the right experiences across social, digital and product portfolios for Amway Business Owners and their customers, ensuring Amway’s ongoing appeal to global entrepreneurs, especially millennials.
“Milind brings a wealth of experience that will go far in advancing Amway’s focus on empowering entrepreneurs and meeting customer needs with exclusive and innovative products,” Amway Co-chairman Steve Van Andel said. 
“The Van Andel and DeVos families remain committed to building on our fathers’ legacy of bringing to all people an opportunity to have a business of their own,” Amway President Doug DeVos said. 
“Given Amway’s strong foundation and leadership in the industry, we’ve never been more confident in the business’ future and we’re excited to welcome Milind to the Amway family.”
In February, Amway announced sales of US$8.8 billion for the year ending December 31, a 2 percent increase over 2017.
“Amway’s growth in sales is a result of our sharp focus on the experience Amway Business Owners and their customers have buying, selling and using Amway products,” said Amway Co-chairman Steve Van Andel.
China is Amway’s largest market. In 2018, 70 percent of Amway China sales were made through mobile orders. China is one of the world’s biggest e-commerce markets.
Amway has made significant investment in digital tools and mobile commerce as well as product innovations that have helped ABOs to attract and retain more customers. Its efforts include technology ugprades which are enabling more e-commerce and social selling, connecting additional products with digital experiences, and personalizing more nutrition and beauty products.  
Amway also aims to step up investment in digital and product innovations as well as data and analytics to provide ABOs more insight into growing their businesses. 
Amway will also accelerate e-commerce, expand traceability in nutrition, add more personalized products and continue to review global operations to ensure investments and resource allocations align with it strategic focus.
