Modest rebound in manufacturing 
2019-02-01
China’s manufacturing activity rebounded moderately in January but remained in the negative territory for the second straight month, official data showed yesterday.
The official Purchasing Managers’ Index, which measures vitality in the manufacturing sector, edged up to 49.5 in January from 49.4 last December, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion, while under 50 is considered contraction.
The latest rebound ended a four-month downward streak since September amid accelerating expansion among manufacturers, the bureau’s senior statistician Zhao Qinghe said.
The sub-index for production climbed to 50.9 from December’s 50.8, while new orders shed 0.1 points to 49.6, the bureau said.
The modest rebound in the manufacturing PMI for January, driven by large enterprises, suggested that the slowdown in China’s manufacturing sector is still manageable, ANZ research said in a note yesterday. But continuous weakness in the PMIs of medium and small enterprises indicated that the impact of supportive policies taken recently has yet to be seen.
Separate bureau data released yesterday showed the country’s non-manufacturing sector is off to a good start in 2019, with non-manufacturing PMI coming in at 54.7 in January, up 0.9 points and 0.3 points, respectively, from December and the average level of 2018.
The services sector, which accounts for more than half of the country’s GDP, posted strong expansion, with the sub-index measuring business activity in the industry gaining 1.3 points to 53.6, the highest in seven months.
Robust expansion was seen in sectors including wholesale, rail and aviation transport, postal and courier services, telecommunications, banking and insurance, and tourism, where the readings all stayed at 57 or above, primarily boosted by pre-holiday factors and consumption upgrades, the bureau said.
In contrast, sectors such as securities and real estate development remained in the contracting territory.
