大家好！
Comrades, friends, ladies and gentlemen, Greetings to you all!
“岁月不居，时节如流。”
"Time stops for no one, and the seasons keep changing."
2019年马上就要到了，我在北京向大家致以新年的美好祝福！
As we usher in 2019, I'd like to extend my New Year wishes from Beijing to you all!
2018年，我们过得很充实、走得很坚定。
2018 has been a full year, and we approached it with steadfast determination.
这一年，我们战胜各种风险挑战，推动经济高质量发展，加快新旧动能转换，保持经济运行在合理区间。
Despite all sorts of risks and challenges, we pushed our economy towards high-quality development, sped up the replacement of the old drivers of growth, and kept the major economic indicators within a reasonable range.
蓝天、碧水、净土保卫战顺利推进，各项民生事业加快发展，人民生活持续改善。
We made headway in our efforts to protect our blue skies, and to defend our rivers and soil from pollution. And we intensified our efforts to improve people's well-being and steadily raise our standards of living.
京津冀协同发展、长江经济带发展、粤港澳大湾区建设等国家战略稳步实施。
National strategies such as the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, the development of the Yangtze River Economic Belt, and the construction of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area were steadfastly implemented.
我在各地考察时欣喜地看到：长江两岸绿意盎然，建三江万亩大地号稻浪滚滚，深圳前海生机勃勃，上海张江活力四射，港珠澳大桥飞架三地......
During my inspection tours around the country, I was pleased to see the lush green banks of the Yangtze River, the ocean of rice sprouting at the Jiansanjiang agricultural base, the lively Shenzhen Qianhai Harbor, the bustling Shanghai Zhangjiang High-tech Park, and the bridge that brings together Hong Kong, Zhuhai, and Macao.
这些成就是全国各族人民撸起袖子干出来的，是新时代奋斗者挥洒汗水拼出来的。
These achievements are all thanks to the hard work of people from all of China's ethnic groups, who are the trail-blazers of the new era.
这一年，中国制造、中国创造、中国建造共同发力，继续改变着中国的面貌。
Over the past year, the combined forces of Chinese manufacturing, Chinese innovation, and Chinese construction, have continued to change the face of the country.
嫦娥四号探测器成功发射，第二艘航母出海试航，国产大型水陆两栖飞机水上首飞，北斗导航向全球组网迈出坚实一步。
We successfully launched the Chang'e-4 lunar probe; our second aircraft carrier set sail on its maiden voyage; our domestically-made large amphibious aircraft performed its first water launch; and the BeiDou Satellite Navigation System has gone global.
在此，我要向每一位科学家、每一位工程师、每一位“大国工匠”、每一位建设者和参与者致敬！
Let me take this opportunity to salute every scientist, every engineer, and every nation builder who made these achievements possible.
这一年，脱贫攻坚传来很多好消息。
We have also made great strides in our poverty alleviation efforts in the past year.
全国又有125个贫困县通过验收脱贫，1000万农村贫困人口摆脱贫困。
Another 125 poor counties and 10 million poverty-stricken rural residents were lifted out of poverty.
17种抗癌药降价并纳入医保目录，因病致贫问题正在进一步得到解决。
We reduced the price of 17 cancer-fighting drugs, and included them on our medical insurance list. And we are continuing to tackle the financial strain that can accompany a family member falling ill.
我时常牵挂着奋战在脱贫一线的同志们，280多万驻村干部、第一书记，工作很投入、很给力，一定要保重身体。
Our comrades on the front lines of the fight against poverty are often in my thoughts, including over 2.8 million officials living and working in villages, and the local village leaders. They are devoted to their work and do an awesome job, and I wish them good health.
我始终惦记着困难群众。
My heart goes out to the people living in hardship.
在四川凉山三河村，我看望了彝族村民吉好也求、节列俄阿木两家人。
In Sanhe Village of Liangshan in Sichuan Province, I visited the families of two villagers from the Yi people.
在山东济南三涧溪村，我和赵顺利一家围坐一起拉家常。
In Sanjianxi Village in Jinan City in Shandong Province, I sat down with the family of Zhao Shunli to hear about their day-to-day lives.
在辽宁抚顺东华园社区，我到陈玉芳家里了解避险搬迁安置情况。
In the Donghuayuan community in the city of Fushun in Liaoning Province, I visited Chen Yufang's family to learn about how they were settling in after being relocated from a dangerous area.
在广东清远连樟村，我和贫困户陆奕和交谈脱贫之计。
In Lianzhang Village in Qingyuan in Guangdong Province, I discussed with a villager named Lu Yihe how we could help to relieve his household's poverty.
他们真诚朴实的面容至今浮现在我的脑海。
I can vividly recall their down-to-earth sincerity.
新年之际，祝乡亲们的生活蒸蒸日上，越过越红火。
I would like to wish all of them and their fellow villagers a prosperous and thriving New Year.
这一年，我们隆重庆祝改革开放40周年，对党和国家机构进行了系统性、整体性、重构性的改革，推出100多项重要改革举措，举办首届中国国际进口博览会，启动建设海南自由贸易试验区。
In 2018, we celebrated the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening up. We unveiled a comprehensive and systematic overhaul of both Party and State institutions. We launched over 100 major reform measures, held the first China International Import Expo, and began construction of a pilot free trade zone in Hainan.
世界看到了改革开放的中国加速度，看到了将改革开放进行到底的中国决心。
The world has seen China's accelerating reform and opening up, and its determination to carry it forward.
我们改革的脚步不会停滞，开放的大门只会越开越大。
China's reforms will never stop, and its doors will only open ever wider.
我注意到，今年，恢复高考后的第一批大学生大多已经退休，大批“00后”进入高校校园。
I noticed that in the past year, most people who enrolled in college when the entrance exam resumed in 1977 have retired. And a large number of people born after 2000 have entered university.
1亿多非户籍人口在城市落户的行动正在继续，1300万人在城镇找到了工作，解决棚户区问题的住房开工了580万套，新市民有了温暖的家。
More than 100 million people from our rural areas are gradually becoming permanent residents in our cities. 13 million have found jobs, and construction has begun on 5.8 million new homes for those people living in dilapidated houses. Many have already moved into their new warm homes.
很多港澳台居民拿到了居住证，香港进入了全国高铁网。
Many people from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan now have resident permits for the mainland, and Hong Kong has become a stop on our high-speed railway network.
一个流动的中国，充满了繁荣发展的活力。
China, as a country of people on the move, is energetically pursuing prosperity.
我们都在努力奔跑，我们都是追梦人。
We are running at full speed towards the realization of our dreams.
此时此刻，我特别要提到一些闪亮的名字。
At this point, I'd like to mention several leading lights.
今年，天上多了颗“南仁东星”，全军英模挂像里多了林俊德和张超两位同志。我们要记住守岛卫国32年的王继才同志，为保护试验平台挺身而出、壮烈牺牲的黄群、宋月才、姜开斌同志，以及其他为国为民捐躯的英雄们。
Nan Rendong, a Chinese scientist after whom an asteroid was named a few months ago; Lin Junde and Zhang Chao, who joined the long list of exemplary soldiers in the People's Liberation Army; Wang Jicai, who for thirty-two years served on a border island; and those who died protecting an experimental offshore platform - Huang Qun, Song Yuecai, and Jiang Kaibin, and the many other heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice for their country.
他们是新时代最可爱的人，永远值得我们怀念和学习。
They are the most admirable people in China's new era, and we should remember their names forever, and learn from their deeds.
这一年，又有很多新老朋友来到中国。
In 2018, China played host to many friends, both old and new.
我们举办了博鳌亚洲论坛年会、上海合作组织青岛峰会、中非合作论坛北京峰会等主场外交活动，提出了中国主张，发出了中国声音。
We hosted the annual Boao Forum for Asia, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Summit in Qingdao, as well as the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation. We put China's proposals on the table and made our voice heard at these and other diplomatic events.
我和同事们出访五大洲，参加了许多重要外交活动，同各国 领 导人进行了广泛交流，巩固了友谊，增进了信任，扩大了我们的朋友圈。
I and my colleagues visited five continents and attended many important diplomatic events. We spoke with state leaders about wide-ranging issues, we strengthened our friendships, we enhanced mutual trust, and we enlarged our circle of friends.
2019年，我们将隆重庆祝中华人民共和国70周年华诞。
In 2019, we will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
70年披荆斩棘，70年风雨兼程。
Our country has braved thorny paths and confronted stormy weather over the past seventy years.
人民是共和国的坚实根基，人民是我们执政的最大底气。
Our people are the country's solid foundation and our main source of confidence to govern.
一路走来，中国人民自力更生、艰苦奋斗，创造了举世瞩目的中国奇迹。
Through the years, the Chinese people have been self-reliant and worked diligently to create Chinese miracles that the world has marveled at.
新征程上，不管乱云飞渡、风吹浪打，我们都要紧紧依靠人民，坚持自力更生、艰苦奋斗，以坚如磐石的信心、只争朝夕的劲头、坚韧不拔的毅力，一步一个脚印把前无古人的伟大事业推向前进。
And now, looking forward, despite the complexities and difficulties we may face on the road ahead, we shall always closely rely on the people and stick to self-reliance and hard work. With rock-solid confidence, and racing against time with unwavering determination, we will carry forward our unprecedented great cause one resolute step after another, and leave enduring footprints behind us.
2019年，有机遇也有挑战，大家还要一起拼搏、一起奋斗。
2019 will see both opportunities and challenges that will require us to work together shoulder to shoulder.
减税降费政策措施要落地生根，让企业轻装上阵。
Policies to cut taxes and fees must take root to ease the burden on enterprises.
要真诚尊重各种人才，充分激发他们创新创造活力。
We must show our sincere appreciation to talent of all kinds, and stimulate their creative energy.
要倾听基层干部心声，让敢担当有作为的干部有干劲、有奔头。
We must lend an ear to our officials at the grassroots, and bring energy and greater purpose to those who are ready to commit to making a difference.
农村1000多万贫困人口的脱贫任务要如期完成，还得咬定目标使劲干。
To achieve our task of lifting another 10 million-plus rural residents out of poverty as planned, we shall remain focused and work hard on this.
要关爱退役军人，他们为保家卫国作出了贡献。
We shall take better care of our military veterans who have done much to keep the motherland safe.
这个时候，快递小哥、环卫工人、出租车司机以及千千万万的劳动者，还在辛勤工作，我们要感谢这些美好生活的创造者、守护者。
Even as we speak, there are deliverymen, street cleaners, taxi drivers, and countless others who are hard at work. We should thank these workers who contribute to the creation of our beautiful society.
大家辛苦了。
Their hard work is much appreciated.
放眼全球，我们正面临百年未有之大变局。
Looking at the world at large, we're facing a period of major change never seen in a century.
无论国际风云如何变幻，中国维护国家主权和安全的信心和决心不会变，中国维护世界和平、促进共同发展的诚意和善意不会变。
No matter what these changes bring, China will remain resolute and confident in its defense of its national sovereignty and security. And China's sincerity and goodwill to safeguard world peace and promote common development will remain unchanged.
我们将积极推动共建“一带一路”，继续推动构建人类命运共同体，为建设一个更加繁荣美好的世界而不懈努力。
We will continue to push ahead with the joint construction of the Belt and Road Initiative, and continue to advocate for the development of a community of shared future for mankind. And we will work tirelessly for a more prosperous and beautiful world.
新年的钟声即将敲响，让我们满怀信心和期待，一同迎接2019年的到来。
As we ring in the New Year, let's embrace 2019 with confidence and anticipation.
祝福中国！祝福世界！
Best wishes to China! And best wishes to the world!
谢谢大家！
Thank you!