Second import expo to meet exhibitors’ needs 
2019-01-10
THE second China International Import Expo will cover a larger exhibition space than the first one in November, its organizers said yesterday, which was the start of the 300-day countdown to the event.
The basic framework, organizers and venue for the second import expo will remain the same.
It will continue to include the national comprehensive trade and investment exhibition, the business exhibition, and the Hongqiao International Economic and Trade Forum.
However, the total exhibition area of the second import expo will exceed the scale of the first one. 
The national exhibition will cover 30,000 square meters, showing the state of trade, including trade in goods and trade in services, industrial conditions, investment, and tourism.
Characteristic products of various countries or regions will also be exhibited.
The national exhibition is for display only with no commercial transactions.
The enterprise and business exhibition will see a rise in exhibition area compared with the first session, based on the requirements of the exhibitors.
There will be seven exhibition sections focusing on five major fields — equipment, consumption, food, health care and service. The seven sections will be: sci-tech life, automobile, equipment, medical equipment and health care products, quality life, trade in services, and food and agricultural products.
The Hongqiao forum will still consist of the main forums and several sub-forums, which is unchanged from the first expo, while aiming to have a larger scale and higher quality of participants.
There will be appropriate expansion of the scale and theme for several exhibition sections, aiming to meet the diverse needs of exhibitors.
In addition, the expo will adjust the types and categories of exhibits, making the contents more professional and also optimizing the structure of the area.
Over 1,000 companies have applied for a place at the second CIIE, scheduled in early November. The registration for the enterprise and business exhibition will close at the end of April.
