Exhibits locked, loaded and on their way here 
2019-09-06
IN the days counting down to the second China International Import Expo, the first exhibits, shipped from the Italian port of Genoa on September 2, are bound for Shanghai.
Exhibits from Vanuatu and the Czech Republic and other countries are in the loading stages, according to expo officials.
The shipment from Genoa includes cosmetics, crystals, health-care products, specialty wines and coffee beans. It is expected to arrive in Shanghai early next month.
For products needing a constant temperature, cold storage is provided throughout the whole delivery chain.
Liu Fuxue, deputy director of the China International Import Expo Bureau, told a meeting that preparatory work for the exposition is now shifting from attracting exhibitors to seeking buyers and organizing the final logistics for the event.
Preliminary meetings have been held in all seven exhibition areas to bring exhibitors and buyers together in advance. Many exhibitors have described the products they are bringing and the setup of their booths.
London-based multinational professional services group PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) said it will showcase its solutions for government and companies in areas such as digital innovation, corporate transformation, talent development, risk and compliance.
“This year, with a larger exhibition area of over 100 square meters, PwC will hold nearly 20 small forums to discuss hot topics such as 5G, Belt and Road, artificial intelligence, digitalization, the smart city and reform of state-owned enterprises,” said Elton Huang, PwC leader of China central markets and co-leader of mainland and Hong Kong business.
France-based global luxury brand LVMH Moët Hennessy will showcase products that range from champagne to luggage and cosmetics.
The company said conferences and product launches during the exhibition will “pay tribute to the specific link that connects Chinese consumers to the LVMH Group.”
Bernard Arnault, chairman and CEO of LVMH, said that the first expo last year was a great success, and he believes this year’s event will be even better.
US-based logistics company United Parcel Service (UPS) said it will bring its smart logistics technologies and overseas delivery solutions to the expo.
Harld Peters, president of UPS China, said the company will be a link to companies of all sizes that want a place in the Chinese market.
The expo will be held from November 5 to 10 at the National Exhibition and Convention Center, covering an area the equivalent of 61 football fields. Some 3,000 companies from over 150 countries and regions have been confirmed participants.
The expo will include a national pavilion of China that will focus on the theme of the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, showcasing that the nation’s economic and social achievements and highlighting the opportunities of a new era.
“As an important part of the expo, preparation work on the National Comprehensive Exhibition is progressing smoothly," said Wang Bingnan, deputy minister of commerce and director of the expo organizing committee.
The national exhibition event will be housed across an area the equivalent of almost six football fields. Shang Yuying, director of the office of urban services and security for expo, said the national exhibition will be extended in length, running from November 11 to 20. That will give additional time to highlight all aspects of China’s reform and opening-up policies, opportunities for investment and leading industries.
So far, 61 countries have confirmed their participation. Fifteen, including France, Italy and Uzbekistan, will serve as the guests of honor.
Uzbekistan is an important hub along the ancient Silk Road and one of the first countries to support China’s Belt and Road trade and economic initiative.
In the first half of the year, Sino-Uzbekistani trade topped US$3.9 billion, an increase of 39 percent from a year earlier. Trade growth has been faster than 30 percent for two consecutive years, making China the largest trading partner.
Uzbekistan will bring products such as Tashkent pilaf, black raisins and almonds to the expo.
As a corollary to expo, the Hongqiao Import Commodity Exhibition and Trading Center will serve as a platform offering “6 + 365 days” one-stop trading services. It has attracted companies eager to promote their products to domestic consumers.
Fu Naixun, deputy director of the Hongqiao Business District Management Committee, said the center aims to become a global hub for trading in high-quality products.
To date, companies from 26 countries have moved in, bringing more than 400 brands. Another 60 companies or so have shown interest, according to Zhu Jidong, vice president of Orient International Holding Co and director of the Shanghai Hongqiao International Import Exhibition and Trading Co.
“It can be a great opportunity because it combines exhibitions with sales, wholesale with retail, warehouse storage and online with offline services,” US e-commerce platform iHerb said in a statement.
