Regional rural products showcased at fair 
2019-10-18
A FAIR at Shanghai Everbright Exhibition and Convention Center is exhibiting and selling products from 21 regions, including Yunnan Province, Kashgar in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and Shigatse in Tibet, after partnering with them on poverty relief.
The four-day fair that opened on Wednesday showcases several thousand agricultural and related products, such as camellia chicken from Xishuangbanna in Yunnan, yak meat from Guoluo in Qinghai, almonds from Kashgar and highland barley products from Tibet.
Besides the exhibition area, where visitors can buy products, there is also an area for the exhibitors to talk to local buyers, including supermarkets, restaurants and hotels. The fair aims to promote products and brands from these regions, build up long-term links between producers and the market, help set up physical stores in the city and guide them on online commerce.
Li Shiyi, of the Yi ethnic group in Yunnan’s Chuxiong Prefecture, told Shanghai Daily that she used to work in a hotel in Nanjing but returned to her hometown when her father was diagnosed with cancer in 2011.
After her father died she decided to stay at home to fulfill her father’s wish to establish a livestock farm and started a company the following year.
“Unlike chickens raised in cages, our chickens run in the mountain and fly onto trees, which makes them more healthy and more tasty and safe as food,” she said, adding that it was difficult to sell at first as no one knew her products.
“We sold eggs and chicken only at local regions and fairs like this in Shanghai is helpful for us to know better about the market outside Yunnan and promote our products,” she said. Li said her company has participated in fairs in Shanghai three times and opened online stores to serve customers around the country.
Her company not only makes her a living but also benefits 2,000 households in her hometown.
“Previously, villagers had almost no income and didn’t know how to make money,” she said. “They only reared several chickens and would have to stand on the street for a whole day to sell 10 to 20 eggs.”
