I'm a writer-director who tells social-change stories, because I believe stories touch and move us. Stories humanize and teach us to empathize. Stories change us.
﻿我是一个编剧兼导演 写一些社会变革的故事， 因为我相信故事能够 打动并驱动我们。 故事使我们得到人性 并教会我们同理心。 故事可以改变我们。
When I write and direct plays, I'm amplifying voices of disadvantaged groups, I'm fighting the self-censorship that has kept many Ugandan artists away from social, political theater since the persecution of artists by former Ugandan president, Idi Amin. And most importantly, I am breaking the silence and provoking meaningful conversations on taboo issues, where often "Silence is golden" is the rule of thumb. Conversations are important because they inform and challenge our minds to think, and change starts with thinking.
当我编导剧本时， 我会为弱势群体发声， 我与自我审查制度抗争 从前乌干达总统阿明 迫害艺术家开始， 自我审查制度让许多乌干达艺术家 无法涉及社会和政治话题。 最重要的是，我正在打破沉默 并且在一些禁忌话题上 激发有意义的交流对话， 通常经验上这些领域 奉行着“沉默是金”的原则。 沟通十分重要 因为交流会提供资讯 并激发我们去思考， 而改变始于思考。
One of my struggles with activism is its often one-sided nature that blinds us to alternative view, that numbs our empathy, that makes us view those who see issues differently as ignorant, self-hating, brainwashed, sellout or plain stupid. I believe no one is ignorant. We are all experts, only in different fields. And this is why, for me, the saying "stay in your truth" is misleading. Because if you're staying in your truth, isn't it logical that the person you believe is wrong is also staying in their truth? So, what you have is two extremes that shut out all possible avenues of conversations. I create provocative theater and film to touch, humanize and move disagreeing parties to the conversation table to bridge misunderstandings. I know that listening to one another will not magically solve all problems. But it will give a chance to create avenues to start to work together to solve many of humanity's problems.
我另一个反对的是 激进主义的片面思维， 它遮蔽了我们看问题的不同角度， 从而麻木了我们的同理心。 并使我们将那些持不同看法的人 视作无知，自怨自艾，被洗脑， 背叛或者纯粹的愚蠢。 我相信没有人是愚昧的。 在各自不同的领域， 每个人都是专家。 这就是为何，对我而言， “坚守你的真理”的说法是一种误导。 因为如果你坚守你所谓的真理, 那按同样的逻辑， 你认为错误的那个人 岂非也在坚守他们的真理呢？ 所以，两个极端的观点 会关闭所有沟通的渠道。 我创作有启发意义的舞台剧和电影 来打动和感化人们， 让不同见解的各方获得沟通的平台 来消除各自的误解。 我知道靠倾听无法 神奇地解决所有问题。 但可以给我们机会创建渠道， 为解决诸多人道问题来共同努力。
With my first play, "Silent Voices," based on interviews with victims of the Northern Uganda war between the government and Joseph Kony's LRA rebel group, I brought together victims, political leaders, religious leaders, cultural leaders, the Amnesty Commission and transitional justice leadership for critical conversations on issues of justice for war crime victims -- the first of its kind in the history of Uganda. And so many powerful things happened, that I can't even cover them all right now. Victims were given the opportunity to sit at the table with Amnesty Commission leadership, and they expressed the big injustice they suffered when the Commission ignored them and instead facilitated the resettlement of the war perpetrators. And the Amnesty Commission acknowledged the victims' pain and explained the thinking behind their flawed approaches.
我的第一部戏剧，“沉默的声音” 素材来自于乌干达 北部战争受害者的采访， 这是政府军和约瑟夫·科尼的 LRA反叛军之间的战争。 我把战争受害者， 政治领袖，宗教领袖， 文化领袖，特赦委员会 和过渡政府领导人召集到一起 严肃交流了一些紧要话题 为战争罪行的受害者诉求公道—— 这在乌干达的历史上是第一次。 之间发生了许多有影响力的事， 时间有限，我无法全部诉说。 受害者有了这个机会 和特赦委员会的领导人坐在一起， 表达他们所经受的 巨大的不公正待遇， 当时特赦委员会忽视了他们 反而帮助战争肇事者重建家园。 特赦委员会承认了受害者的痛苦 并解释了那有缺陷的措施 背后的想法。
But one of the things that has stayed with me is when, during my Northern Uganda tour of the play, a man approached me and introduced himself as a former rebel solder of Joseph Kony. He told me that he didn't want me to leave feeling disappointed, due to some of what I considered inappropriate laughter. He explained that his was a laughter of embarrassment and a recognition of his own embarrassment. He saw himself in the actors onstage and saw the meaninglessness of his past actions. So I say: share your truths. Listen to one another's truths. You will discover a more powerfully uniting truth in the middle ground.
我还记得其中有一件事， 当我的戏剧在乌干达北部巡演时， 有一个男人找到我，自称 是一个前反叛军的士兵。 他告诉我，他不想让我带着失望离开， 因为当时我听到一些不恰当的笑声。 他解释说那是尴尬的笑声 并且意识到了自己的困窘。 他在舞台上看到了自己， 并且看到了自己曾经的行为 毫无意义。 于是我说：分享你自己的真理。 也倾听其它人的真理。 你将会在中间地带 发现一个更有力的共识。
When I lived in the USA, many of my American friends would be shocked at my ignorance at fancy Western dishes like lasagna, for instance.
当我在美国生活的时候， 我的很多美国朋友 会吃惊于我对 高级的西餐的愚昧无知， 比如千层面。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And my question to them would be, "Well, do you know malakwang?" And then I would tell them about malakwang, a fancy vegetable dish from my culture. And they would tell me about lasagna. And we would leave richer and fuller individuals. Therefore, share your recipe truth. It makes for a better meal.
然后我就会问他们， “那么，你听说过malakwang吗？” 然后我会告诉他们， malakwang是我们文化中 的一道高级蔬菜料理。 他们会告诉我什么是千层面。 结果我们会变得更丰富和完满。 所以，分享你的菜谱吧， 你会做出更好的菜肴。
Thank you.
谢谢你们！
(Applause)
（掌声）