It's August 5, 2010. A massive collapse at the San José Copper Mine in Northern Chile has left 33 men trapped half a mile -- that's two Empire State Buildings -- below some of the hardest rock in the world. They will find their way to a small refuge designed for this purpose, where they will find intense heat, filth and about enough food for two men for 10 days. Aboveground, it doesn't take long for the experts to figure out that there is no solution. No drilling technology in the industry is capable of getting through rock that hard and that deep fast enough to save their lives. It's not exactly clear where the refuge is. It's not even clear if the miners are alive. And it's not even clear who's in charge. Yet, within 70 days, all 33 of these men will be brought to the surface alive. This remarkable story is a case study in the power of teaming.
﻿2010年8月5日， 在智利北部的圣何塞铜矿， 一场巨大的坍塌 使得33个人被困在了半英里深的地下 ——相当于两个帝国大厦的深度—— 头顶是世界上最坚硬的岩石。 被困人员会前往一个 预先设计好的小型避难所， 那里酷热，肮脏， 保存着只够两个人维持10天的食物。 地面上的专家很快就发现， 他们找不出可行的营救方案。 没有任何现成的钻孔技术 能够在有限的时间内 在这样的深度打通如此坚硬的石头， 将被困人员活着救出来。 人们不确定地下避难所的位置， 也不确定矿工们是否还活着。 甚至都不知道相关负责人是谁。 但是，在70天内， 所有33人都会活着回到地面。 这一非凡的故事，是一起关于 团队合作力量的案例分析。
So what's "teaming"? Teaming is teamwork on the fly. It's coordinating and collaborating with people across boundaries of all kinds -- expertise, distance, time zone, you name it -- to get work done.
那么“团队合作”是什么？ 团队合作是高效的互相配合。 它是与各种各样的人 进行协调和合作， 跨过各种障碍—— 专业知识，距离，时区， 所有你能想到的—— 来完成工作。
Think of your favorite sports team, because this is different. Sports teams work together: that magic, those game-saving plays. Now, sports teams win because they practice. But you can only practice if you have the same members over time. And so you can think of teaming ... Sports teams embody the definition of a team, the formal definition. It's a stable, bounded, reasonably small group of people who are interdependent in achieving a shared outcome. You can think of teaming as a kind of pickup game in the park, in contrast to the formal, well-practiced team. Now, which one is going to win in a playoff? The answer is obvious. So why do I study teaming? It's because it's the way more and more of us have to work today. With 24/7 global fast-paced operations, crazy shifting schedules and ever-narrower expertise, more and more of us have to work with different people all the time to get our work done. We don't have the luxury of stable teams. Now, when you can have that luxury, by all means do it. But increasingly for a lot of the work we do today, we don't have that option. One place where this is true is hospitals. This is where I've done a lot of my research over the years. So it turns out hospitals have to be open 24/7. And patients -- well, they're all different. They're all different in complicated and unique ways. The average hospitalized patient is seen by 60 or so different caregivers throughout his stay. They come from different shifts, different specialties, different areas of expertise, and they may not even know each other's name. But they have to coordinate in order for the patient to get great care. And when they don't, the results can be tragic.
对比你最喜欢的运动队， 因为这是不一样的。 运动队需要协作：那种魔力， 那些扭转局势的操作。 不过运动队会获胜， 是因为他们平时在练习。 但你只能在有着同样队友的 情况下进行那样的练习。 所以你可以想想团队合作…… 运动队符合一个队伍的定义， 正式的定义。 这是一组稳定，联系着的， 相对比较小的一组人。 他们互相依靠，以达到共享的结果。 你可以把团队合作想成 在公园里的临时发起的比赛， 而非专业的，训练充足的队伍。 那么，哪一队会在比赛中胜出呢？ 答案显而易见。 所以我为什么要研究团队合作呢？ 因为在今天，我们越来越多地 需要以这种方式工作。 在每天24小时运营的 快节奏的全球企业中， 有着疯狂改变的计划表， 和越发细分的专业， 越来越多的时候，我们需要 和其他不同的人 一起合作，来完成工作。 我们无法奢望一个稳定的团队。 如果可以的话，务必要这样做。 但今天的许多工作 却无法提供这样的条件。 比如，医院。 多年来我的很多研究 都是在这里进行的。 医院必须24小时开放。 而病人们——他们的情况各不相同。 以独特而复杂的方式不同。 平均每个病人在住院期间 会被60多人照看。 他们来自不同班次， 有着不同的背景和专业， 可能甚至都不知道彼此的名字。 但为了病人他们必须互相合作。 而如果他们不这样做， 就会有惨剧发生。
Of course, in teaming, the stakes aren't always life and death. Consider what it takes to create an animated film, an award-winning animated film. I had the good fortune to go to Disney Animation and study over 900 scientists, artists, storytellers, computer scientists as they teamed up in constantly changing configurations to create amazing outcomes like "Frozen." They just work together, and never the same group twice, not knowing what's going to happen next. Now, taking care of patients in the emergency room and designing an animated film are obviously very different work. Yet underneath the differences, they have a lot in common. You have to get different expertise at different times, you don't have fixed roles, you don't have fixed deliverables, you're going to be doing a lot of things that have never been done before, and you can't do it in a stable team.
当然，在团队合作中， 并不总是涉及生死。 想想当你需要做 一部获奖的动画电影时 会经历什么。 我有幸去过迪士尼动画公司， 并且研究了超过900位 科学家和艺术家， 故事讲述人，电脑专家， 研究他们如何在不断变化的 人员配置中通过团队合作 来制造出像《冰雪奇缘》 一样伟大的作品。 他们就是在一起工作， 从来没有两组人是同样的， 谁都不知道接下来会发生什么。 在急救室照顾病人 与设计动画电影 显然是截然不同的工作。 但在差异之下，他们 又有很多相似之处。 你必须在不同的时间 获得不同的专业知识， 你没有固定角色，没有固定交付任务， 你会做一些你从未做过的事情， 还不能在一个固定团队中实现。
Now, this way of working isn't easy, but as I said, it's more and more the way many of us have to work, so we have to understand it. And I would argue that it's especially needed for work that's complex and unpredictable and for solving big problems. Paul Polman, the Unilever CEO, put this really well when he said, "The issues we face today are so big and so challenging, it becomes quite clear we can't do it alone, and so there is a certain humility in knowing you have to invite people in." Issues like food or water scarcity cannot be done by individuals, even by single companies, even by single sectors. So we're reaching out to team across big teaming, grand-scale teaming.
这种工作方式并不简单， 但像我说的，这是越来越多的人 必需的工作方式， 所以我们必须理解它。 我认为，对于复杂和不可预测的工作 和解决大问题来说， 这是特别必要的。 联合利华首席执行官 保罗 · 波尔曼说得很好， 他说：“我们今天面临的问题 是如此巨大，如此具有挑战性， 很明显，我们不能单独行动， 所以在知道你必须邀请人们进来的 时候，你会有一种谦逊的态度。” 像粮食和水资源短缺这样的问题 是不能由个人来解决的， 甚至是单个公司， 单个部门。 所以我们正在与团队进行大的合作， 大规模的合作。
Take the quest for smart cities. Maybe you've seen some of the rhetoric: mixed-use designs, zero net energy buildings, smart mobility, green, livable, wonderful cities. We have the vocabulary, we have the visions, not to mention the need. We have the technology. Two megatrends -- urbanization, we're fast becoming a more urban planet, and climate change -- have been increasingly pointing to cities as a crucial target for innovation. And now around the world in various locations, people have been teaming up to design and try to create green, livable, smart cities. It's a massive innovation challenge.
以智慧城市为例。 也许你见过一些修辞： 多功能设计，零能耗建筑， 智能移动， 绿色宜居，美好的城市。 我们有词汇，我们有愿景， 更别说需求。 我们有技术。 有两个大趋势—— 城市化，我们快速的变成 越发城市化的星球， 以及气候变化—— 它们越来越多的指向城市， 成为创新的关键目标。 而现在在世界各地不同的地点， 人们组成团队 来设计和尝试创造 绿色，宜居，智能的城市。 这是个巨大的创新挑战。
To understand it better, I studied a start-up -- a smart-city software start-up -- as it teamed up with a real estate developer, some civil engineers, a mayor, an architect, some builders, some tech companies. Their goal was to build a demo smart city from scratch. OK. Five years into the project, not a whole lot had happened. Six years, still no ground broken. It seemed that teaming across industry boundaries was really, really hard. OK, so ... We had inadvertently discovered what I call "professional culture clash" with this project. You know, software engineers and real estate developers think differently -- really differently: different values, different time frames -- time frames is a big one -- and different jargon, different language. And so they don't always see eye to eye. I think this is a bigger problem than most of us realize. In fact, I think professional culture clash is a major barrier to building the future that we aspire to build. And so it becomes a problem that we have to understand, a problem that we have to figure out how to crack. So how do you make sure teaming goes well, especially big teaming? This is the question I've been trying to solve for a number of years in many different workplaces with my research.
为了更好理解这点， 我研究了一家初创公司—— 一家智能城市的软件初创公司——
Now, to begin to get just a glimpse of the answer to this question, let's go back to Chile. In Chile, we witnessed 10 weeks of teaming by hundreds of individuals from different professions, different companies, different sectors, even different nations. And as this process unfolded, they had lots of ideas, they tried many things, they experimented, they failed, they experienced devastating daily failure, but they picked up, persevered, and went on forward. And really, what we witnessed there was they were able to be humble in the face of the very real challenge ahead, curious -- all of these diverse individuals, diverse expertise especially, nationality as well, were quite curious about what each other brings. And they were willing to take risks to learn fast what might work. And ultimately, 17 days into this remarkable story, ideas came from everywhere. They came from André Sougarret, who is a brilliant mining engineer who was appointed by the government to lead the rescue. They came from NASA. They came from Chilean Special Forces. They came from volunteers around the world. And while many of us, including myself, watched from afar, these folks made slow, painful progress through the rock.
它与一个房地产开发商， 一些土木工程师， 一个市长， 一个建筑师，一些建筑商， 和一些科技公司合作。 他们的目标是从零开始建立一个 演示版的智能城市。 好的。项目进行了五年， 并没有多大进度。 六年，仍然没有破土动工。 似乎跨产业的团队合作 非常，非常难。 好的。那么…… 我们在这一项目中 无意间发现了我称之为 “职业文化冲突”的现象。 软件工程师和房地产开发商 有着不同的思维—— 非常不同： 不同价值观，不同的时间框架—— 时间框架是很重要的一点—— 以及不同的行话，不同的语言。 所以他们并不总是意见一致。 我认为这是我们大多数人都没有 意识到的一个更大的问题。 事实上，我认为专业间的文化冲突 是建设我们渴望建立的 未来的主要障碍。 这就变成了一个 我们必须理解的问题， 一个我们必须找到解决方法的问题。 那么，你如何才能确保团队合作能够 顺利进行，尤其是大团队？ 这就是我在许多年的研究中， 在不同的工作场所 尝试解决的问题。
On the 17th day, they broke through to the refuge. It's just a remarkable moment. And with just a very small incision, they were able to find it through a bunch of experimental techniques. And then for the next 53 days, that narrow lifeline would be the path where food and medicine and communication would travel, while aboveground, for 53 more days, they continued the teaming to find a way to create a much larger hole and also to design a capsule. This is the capsule. And then on the 69th day, over 22 painstaking hours, they managed to pull the miners out one by one.
要想对这个问题有初步的了解， 让我们回到智利。 在智利，我们见证了 10周的团队合作， 涉及到几百位来自 不同职业，不同公司， 不同领域，甚至不同国家的人。 而随着这个过程的展开， 他们有了很多想法， 进行了多次尝试， 他们实验了，又失败了， 他们每天都经历着毁灭性的失败， 但又会爬起来，坚持着， 继续前进。 而事实上，我们所看到的是， 面对未来真正的挑战， 他们能够保持谦逊， 充满好奇——所有这些不同的人， 尤其是有着不同的专业和国籍， 都对彼此带来的东西很好奇。 而且他们愿意承担风险来了解 哪些方法可能有效。 而最终，在这个故事发生的第17天， 来自世界各地的点子接踵而至。 它们来自安德烈 · 苏加瑞特， 他是一个杰出的采矿工程师， 受政府指派领导救援。 它们来自美国国家航空航天局。 它们来自智利特种部队。 它们来自全世界的志愿者们。 而当我们中的许多人， 包括我自己，从远处观察着， 这些人正在岩石中 缓慢而痛苦地前进。
So how did they overcome professional culture clash? I would say in a word, it's leadership, but let me be more specific. When teaming works, you can be sure that some leaders, leaders at all levels, have been crystal clear that they don't have the answers. Let's call this "situational humility." It's appropriate humility. We don't know how to do it. You can be sure, as I said before, people were very curious, and this situational humility combined with curiosity creates a sense of psychological safety that allows you take risks with strangers, because let's face it: it's hard to speak up, right? It's hard to ask for help. It's hard to offer an idea that might be a stupid idea if you don't know people very well. You need psychological safety to do that. They overcame what I like to call the basic human challenge: it's hard to learn if you already know. And unfortunately, we're hardwired to think we know. And so we've got to remind ourselves -- and we can do it -- to be curious; to be curious about what others bring. And that curiosity can also spawn a kind of generosity of interpretation.
在第17天，他们成功进入了避难所。 这是个激动人心的时刻。 而只用一个小小的切口，他们便能 利用许多实验技巧来找到避难所。 而之后的53天里， 这一狭窄的生命通道会成为 食物、药品与交流的通道， 而在地上，在53天里， 他们继续着团队合作， 来找出一个制造更大洞口的方法， 并且设计一个舱室。 这就是那个舱室。 而之后，在第69天， 经历了超过22个小时痛苦的努力， 他们终于能够将矿工们 一个一个拉出来。
But there's another barrier, and you all know it. You wouldn't be in this room if you didn't know it. And to explain it, I'm going to quote from the movie "The Paper Chase." This, by the way, is what Hollywood thinks a Harvard professor is supposed to look like. You be the judge. The professor in this famous scene, he's welcoming the new 1L class, and he says, "Look to your left. Look to your right. one of you won't be here next year." What message did they hear? "It's me or you." For me to succeed, you must fail. Now, I don't think too many organizations welcome newcomers that way anymore, but still, many times people arrive with that message of scarcity anyway. It's me or you. It's awfully hard to team if you inadvertently see others as competitors.
那么他们究竟是如何克服 职业文化冲突的呢？ 我会用一个词概括：领导力。 不过让我更详细的解释一下。 当团队合作顺利时， 你可以肯定有些领导者， 不同层级的领导者， 非常清楚他们自己没有答案。 让我们把这称为“情境谦虚”。 这是适当的谦逊。 我们不知道该怎样做。 你可以确定，就像我之前 说的一样，人们很好奇， 而这一情境中的谦虚 与好奇心结合起来， 创造了一种心理安全感， 使得你可以与陌生人 一起承担风险。 因为我们要直面它： 开口总是很难，对吧？ 寻求帮助绝非易事。 如果你并不是很了解别人， 你很难说出一个可能愚蠢的想法。 你需要心理安全感来这么做。 他们跨越了我称作 基本人类挑战的东西： 如果你已经知道了， 就很难继续学习。 而不幸的是，我们天生就 倾向于认为自己知道。 所以，我们需要提醒自己—— 我们能做到这点—— 要充满好奇心； 要好奇其他人能带来的东西。 这种好奇心也能产生 一种慷慨的解释。
So we have to overcome that one as well, and when we do, the results can be awesome. Abraham Lincoln said once, "I don't like that man very much. I must get to know him better." Think about that -- I don't like him, that means I don't know him well enough. It's extraordinary. This is the mindset, I have to say, this is the mindset you need for effective teaming. In our silos, we can get things done. But when we step back and reach out and reach across, miracles can happen. Miners can be rescued, patients can be saved, beautiful films can be created.
但还有另一个障碍， 而你们都知道它。 如果你不知道， 你就不会在这个房间里。 而要想解释它，我想引用电影 《力争上游》里的一句话： 顺便说一句，这是好莱坞认为的 一个哈佛教授应该具备的形象。 你们自行评判。 在这一著名场景中的教授， 他正在欢迎新的学生， 而他说：“朝左看看。朝右看看。 你们中的一个明年不会在这里了。” 他们听到了什么消息呢？ “不是我就是你。” 如果我要成功，你必须失败。 现在，我并不认为许多组织 会像那样欢迎新人了， 不过，许多时候，人们在进入组织时 依然会听到这条关于稀缺性的信息。 不是我就是你。 如果你不小心将别人视为竞争对手， 那你就很难与他们合作。
To get there, I think there's no better advice than this: look to your left, look to your right. How quickly can you find the unique talents, skills and hopes of your neighbor, and how quickly, in turn, can you convey what you bring? Because for us to team up to build the future we know we can create that none of us can do alone, that's the mindset we need.
所以我们也需要克服这一点。 而当我们这样做的时候， 结果会非常棒。 亚伯拉罕 · 林肯曾经说过： “我不太喜欢那个人。 我必须更好地了解他。” 想想看—— 我不喜欢他，这意味着 我对他不够了解。 多么伟大的想法。 这是一种心态，我不得不说， 这是你在进行有效合作时 所需要的心态。 在我们的筒仓里， 我们可以把事情做完。 但当我们退后一步，伸出手去， 奇迹就能发生。 矿工们可以获救， 病人们能得救， 美丽的电影能被制造出来。
Thank you.
为了达到这个目标， 我认为没有比这更好的建议了： 向左看，向右看。 你能多快地找到你的邻居 所拥有的独特才华、 技能和愿景， 又能多快地传达出 你想要传递的信息？ 因为对于我们来说，为了建立一个 我们知道可以通过集体， 而非个人所能创造的未来， 这就是我们需要的心态。
(Applause)
谢谢。