Just over a year ago, for the third time in my life, I ceased to exist. I was having a small operation, and my brain was filling with anesthetic. I remember a sense of detachment and falling apart and a coldness. And then I was back, drowsy and disoriented, but definitely there. Now, when you wake from a deep sleep, you might feel confused about the time or anxious about oversleeping, but there's always a basic sense of time having passed, of a continuity between then and now. Coming round from anesthesia is very different. I could have been under for five minutes, five hours, five years or even 50 years. I simply wasn't there. It was total oblivion. Anesthesia — it's a modern kind of magic. It turns people into objects, and then, we hope, back again into people. And in this process is one of the greatest remaining mysteries in science and philosophy.
﻿就在一年之前， 我陷入了人生的第三次休克。
How does consciousness happen? Somehow, within each of our brains, the combined activity of many billions of neurons, each one a tiny biological machine, is generating a conscious experience. And not just any conscious experience — your conscious experience right here and right now. How does this happen?
当时我正经历一个小手术， 我的大脑里满是麻醉剂。 我记得，我感到了超脱与分离， 还有寒冷的感觉。 随后我苏醒了， 昏昏欲睡，毫无方向感， 但确乎是活过来了。 当你从深睡中醒来时， 你会分不清时间， 还可能会担忧睡过了头， 但至少能感到时间的流逝， 可以感到过去到现在是连续的。 然而从麻醉中苏醒是非常不同的。 我可能已经昏睡了5分钟，5小时， 5年，甚至50年。 我感觉不到自己的存在。 是完全麻木无感的。 麻醉剂—— 是现代的一种魔法， 它把人变成物体， 然后我们希望之后还能变回常人。 在这个过程中， 蕴含着一个科学与哲学的未解之谜。
Answering this question is so important because consciousness for each of us is all there is. Without it there's no world, there's no self, there's nothing at all. And when we suffer, we suffer consciously whether it's through mental illness or pain. And if we can experience joy and suffering, what about other animals? Might they be conscious, too? Do they also have a sense of self? And as computers get faster and smarter, maybe there will come a point, maybe not too far away, when my iPhone develops a sense of its own existence.
意识是如何形成的？ 在每个人的大脑中， 有数十亿的神经元以某种方式联合作用， 每个小小的神经元都是生物机器， 它们创造了每一段意识体验。 而且这并不是任意的意识体验， 而恰好是你此时此地的意识体验。 这是如何发生的？
I actually think the prospects for a conscious AI are pretty remote. And I think this because my research is telling me that consciousness has less to do with pure intelligence and more to do with our nature as living and breathing organisms. Consciousness and intelligence are very different things. You don't have to be smart to suffer, but you probably do have to be alive.
这个问题的答案很重要， 因为我们每个人都有意识， 没有意识，就没有世界， 没有自我， 没有一切。 当我们经受苦难时， 也是有意识地经历着， 无论是心理还是身体上的痛苦。 如果我们可以感到快乐和痛苦， 其它的动物呢？ 它们是否也有意识？ 是否也有自我的认知？ 而且现在电脑的运转越来越迅速， 越来越智能， 也许突然之间， 也许就在不久的将来， 我的 iPhone 会意识到它自己的存在。
In the story I'm going to tell you, our conscious experiences of the world around us, and of ourselves within it, are kinds of controlled hallucinations that happen with, through and because of our living bodies.
事实上，我认为 距离有意识的人工智能出现还是很遥远的。 因为我的研究告诉我， 意识不单单是智力的表现， 而是更多的有关于我们的本性， 作为活着、能呼吸的有机体。 意识和智力差别是很大的。 就算你不聪明你也会感到痛苦， 但前提是你得活着。
Now, you might have heard that we know nothing about how the brain and body give rise to consciousness. Some people even say it's beyond the reach of science altogether. But in fact, the last 25 years have seen an explosion of scientific work in this area. If you come to my lab at the University of Sussex, you'll find scientists from all different disciplines and sometimes even philosophers. All of us together trying to understand how consciousness happens and what happens when it goes wrong. And the strategy is very simple. I'd like you to think about consciousness in the way that we've come to think about life. At one time, people thought the property of being alive could not be explained by physics and chemistry — that life had to be more than just mechanism. But people no longer think that. As biologists got on with the job of explaining the properties of living systems in terms of physics and chemistry — things like metabolism, reproduction, homeostasis — the basic mystery of what life is started to fade away, and people didn't propose any more magical solutions, like a force of life or an élan vital. So as with life, so with consciousness. Once we start explaining its properties in terms of things happening inside brains and bodies, the apparently insoluble mystery of what consciousness is should start to fade away. At least that's the plan.
在接下来我要讲给你们的故事中， 我们对周围世界的意识体验， 以及我们自己的存在， 都是被控制的错觉， 都源自我们的生命体。
So let's get started. What are the properties of consciousness? What should a science of consciousness try to explain? Well, for today I'd just like to think of consciousness in two different ways. There are experiences of the world around us, full of sights, sounds and smells, there's multisensory, panoramic, 3D, fully immersive inner movie. And then there's conscious self. The specific experience of being you or being me. The lead character in this inner movie, and probably the aspect of consciousness we all cling to most tightly. Let's start with experiences of the world around us, and with the important idea of the brain as a prediction engine.
你可能听说过， 我们对大脑和身体如何产生意识一无所知。 甚至有人认为这已超过了科学的范畴。 但事实上， 在过去的25年里，在这一领域里的 科学研究取得了重大突破。 如果你来到我在苏塞克斯大学的实验室， 你会发现来自不同学科的科学家们， 甚至哲学家们， 都在试着弄明白意识是如何形成的， 还有当它出错时会发生什么。 其实我们的办法非常简单。 我希望你们思考意识 就像我们思考生命一样。 人们曾一度认为生命 不能完全被物理和化学原理所解释， 也就是说人们认为生命不仅仅是机制。 但现在人们不再这样想了。 随着生物学家的研究推进， 用物理、化学原理解释 生物系统的特性 像是新陈代谢，繁衍后代，体内平衡这些—— 生命的神秘感渐渐消退， 人们也不再给出神奇的解释， 比如这是生命的力量，生命的热忱之类的。 所以意识其实和生命一样。 一旦我们试着解释它的特性， 就大脑和身体内部发生的事情而言， 什么是意识的不解之谜 就会变得了无生趣。 我们计划就是这样的。
Imagine being a brain. You're locked inside a bony skull, trying to figure what's out there in the world. There's no lights inside the skull. There's no sound either. All you've got to go on is streams of electrical impulses which are only indirectly related to things in the world, whatever they may be. So perception — figuring out what's there — has to be a process of informed guesswork in which the brain combines these sensory signals with its prior expectations or beliefs about the way the world is to form its best guess of what caused those signals. The brain doesn't hear sound or see light. What we perceive is its best guess of what's out there in the world.
那么咱们开始。 意识的特性是什么？ 意识科学需要解释什么？ 那么今天，我想把意识分为两类讨论。 一类是我们对于外界的认知， 包括影像、声音、气味， 这是多感官的、全景的、 3D的、身临其境的内心电影。 第二类就是意识本身了。 也就是成为你或我的明确的体验。 是这部电影的主角， 也可能就是我们所执着的意识层面。 让我们从体验周围的世界开始讲起， 从认识到大脑是一个预测引擎开始。
Let me give you a couple of examples of all this. You might have seen this illusion before, but I'd like you to think about it in a new way. If you look at those two patches, A and B, they should look to you to be very different shades of gray, right? But they are in fact exactly the same shade. And I can illustrate this. If I put up a second version of the image here and join the two patches with a gray-colored bar, you can see there's no difference. It's exactly the same shade of gray. And if you still don't believe me, I'll bring the bar across and join them up. It's a single colored block of gray, there's no difference at all. This isn't any kind of magic trick. It's the same shade of gray, but take it away again, and it looks different. So what's happening here is that the brain is using its prior expectations built deeply into the circuits of the visual cortex that a cast shadow dims the appearance of a surface, so that we see B as lighter than it really is.
想象你就是大脑。 你被禁锢在头颅里， 尝试了解外面的世界有什么。 头颅里没有光，也没有声音。 你所能感到的只有脉冲电流， 这是你与外界事物的唯一的间接联系， 不管它们是什么。 所以说感知—— 或者说搞明白那是什么 是一个“已知”的猜测过程。 大脑将这些感觉信号 与之前对世界的预期或信念相结合 做出是什么产生了这些信号的最佳猜想。 大脑是看不见也听不见的。 我们所感知到的是它对外界事物的最佳猜测。
Here's one more example, which shows just how quickly the brain can use new predictions to change what we consciously experience. Have a listen to this.
我举些例子说明一下吧。 你之前可能有过这样的错觉， 但我希望你能重新思考一下。 当你看这两块区域时，A和B， 它们是深浅不同的灰色，对吧？ 但实际上它们颜色是一样的。 我能解释这一现象。 如果我再在这儿加上第二版图像 用灰条连接这两块区域， 你会发现，它们毫无差别。 它们的灰度完全一样。 如果你还不相信我， 我把灰条移走 把它们重合在一起。 它们是一样的灰度， 完全相同。 这不是什么魔术。 它们就是一样的灰度， 但是去掉灰条， 它们看起来有不一样了。 那么究竟发生了什么呢？ 就是大脑用它先前的预期 深入到视觉皮层的回路中 使得一个投影看起来变暗了， 所以我们看到的区域B比实际的颜色要亮。
(Distorted voice)
还有一个例子， 证明大脑可以快速使用新的预测 来改变我们的意识体验。 请听这段声音。
Sounded strange, right? Have a listen again and see if you can get anything.
（扭曲的声音）
(Distorted voice)
听起来很奇怪，对吧？ 咱们再听一次 看你能不能听出点什么。
Still strange. Now listen to this.
（扭曲的声音）
(Recording) Anil Seth: I think Brexit is a really terrible idea.
还是很奇怪。 接下来，请听这个
(Laughter)
（录音）Anil Seth:  “我觉得英国脱欧真是个馊主意。”
Which I do.
（笑声 ）
So you heard some words there, right? Now listen to the first sound again. I'm just going to replay it.
这是我的声音。
(Distorted voice)
你们听到了一些词，对吧？ 现在再听一遍第一段声音。 我会重播一遍。
Yeah? So you can now hear words there. Once more for luck.
（扭曲的声音）
(Distorted voice)
你可以听出一些单词了吧？ 再试一次。
OK, so what's going on here? The remarkable thing is the sensory information coming into the brain hasn't changed at all. All that's changed is your brain's best guess of the causes of that sensory information. And that changes what you consciously hear. All this puts the brain basis of perception in a bit of a different light. Instead of perception depending largely on signals coming into the brain from the outside world, it depends as much, if not more, on perceptual predictions flowing in the opposite direction. We don't just passively perceive the world, we actively generate it. The world we experience comes as much, if not more, from the inside out as from the outside in.
（扭曲的声音）
Let me give you one more example of perception as this active, constructive process. Here we've combined immersive virtual reality with image processing to simulate the effects of overly strong perceptual predictions on experience. In this panoramic video, we've transformed the world — which is in this case Sussex campus — into a psychedelic playground. We've processed the footage using an algorithm based on Google's Deep Dream to simulate the effects of overly strong perceptual predictions. In this case, to see dogs. And you can see this is a very strange thing. When perceptual predictions are too strong, as they are here, the result looks very much like the kinds of hallucinations people might report in altered states, or perhaps even in psychosis.
所以到底是怎么回事？ 值得注意的是 进入大脑的感受信息 完全没有改变。 变了的，只是你脑中的猜测， 对感受信息的猜测。 而这改变了你下意识所听到的东西。 这些使大脑的感知基础 处于不同的亮度中。 感知并不单纯取决于 外界传入脑中的信号， 而是更多地取决于 反向流动的感知预测。 我们并非被动地感受着世界， 相反，我们积极地创造着一切。 我们对于世界的意识体验 既是由内而外的， 也是由外到内的。
Now, think about this for a minute. If hallucination is a kind of uncontrolled perception, then perception right here and right now is also a kind of hallucination, but a controlled hallucination in which the brain's predictions are being reigned in by sensory information from the world. In fact, we're all hallucinating all the time, including right now. It's just that when we agree about our hallucinations, we call that reality.
我再举一个感知的例子， 这是一个积极的，有建设性的过程。 我们将沉浸式虚拟现实与图像处理结合起来， 模拟我们体验中相当强烈的 感知预测。 在这段全景影像中， 我们重塑了世界—— 我们把苏塞克斯校园 变为一个迷幻的游乐场。 我们用谷歌的“深层梦想”的算法 处理了这段视频 来模拟我们在 相当强烈的感知预测下的真实体验。 在这种情况下，我们看到了狗狗。 你可以看到这些很奇怪。 当感知预测太过强烈， 正如这一案例中， 画面看起来就像是幻觉。 人们看起来像是变形的状态， 甚至像患有精神病一样。
(Laughter)
让我们想一想。 如果幻觉是一种不可控的感知， 那么我们此时此刻的感知 也恰是一种幻觉， 但如果幻觉可控 那么大脑的预测将由 从外界获取的感官信息所主宰。 事实上， 我们一直都在幻想， 包括现在。 只是当我们认同我们的幻觉时， 我们称之为现实。
Now I'm going to tell you that your experience of being a self, the specific experience of being you, is also a controlled hallucination generated by the brain. This seems a very strange idea, right? Yes, visual illusions might deceive my eyes, but how could I be deceived about what it means to be me? For most of us, the experience of being a person is so familiar, so unified and so continuous that it's difficult not to take it for granted. But we shouldn't take it for granted. There are in fact many different ways we experience being a self. There's the experience of having a body and of being a body. There are experiences of perceiving the world from a first person point of view. There are experiences of intending to do things and of being the cause of things that happen in the world. And there are experiences of being a continuous and distinctive person over time, built from a rich set of memories and social interactions.
（笑声）
Many experiments show, and psychiatrists and neurologists know very well, that these different ways in which we experience being a self can all come apart. What this means is the basic background experience of being a unified self is a rather fragile construction of the brain. Another experience, which just like all others, requires explanation.
接下来，我要告诉你们 作为自我的体验， 成为你自己的特定体验。 也是一种大脑产生的可控幻觉。 这听起来很奇怪，对吧？ 没错，视觉错觉可能会欺骗我们的眼睛， 但我怎么可能会能被自我存在的意义所骗呢？ 对于大多数人而言 “作为人”的体验 是如此的熟悉、统一、 并且从不间断， 所以它也极易被忽视。 但我们不应视之为理所当然。 有很多方式可以体验自我。 我们可以体验拥有一个身体 掌控这个身体。 我们可以体验以第一视角 来认知这个世界。 我们可以体验试着去做某事 或是成为世上发生的事情的缘由。 我们还可以体验 随着时间流逝， 基于丰富的记忆及社会相互作用 我们仍是一个与众不同的人。
So let's return to the bodily self. How does the brain generate the experience of being a body and of having a body? Well, just the same principles apply. The brain makes its best guess about what is and what is not part of its body. And there's a beautiful experiment in neuroscience to illustrate this. And unlike most neuroscience experiments, this is one you can do at home. All you need is one of these.
许多实验表明， 精神病学家和神经学家其实非常了解 我们体验自我的这些不同的方式 是相互独立的。 这意味着 对于大脑而言 成为一个统一的自我的体验是很脆弱的。 另一个与之相似的体验 需要进一步解释。
(Laughter)
让我们先回到身体本身。 大脑是如何产生成为一个身体的体验的？ 或者说拥有一个身体？ 之前的原理同样适用。 大脑做出了它的最佳推测， 关于哪一部分属于身体，哪一部分不属于。 神经科学里有一个很棒的实验 可以说明这一点。 与大多数神经科学试验不同， 这一试验你在家里就可以进行。 你只需要这个。
And a couple of paintbrushes.
（笑声）
In the rubber hand illusion, a person's real hand is hidden from view, and that fake rubber hand is placed in front of them. Then both hands are simultaneously stroked with a paintbrush while the person stares at the fake hand. Now, for most people, after a while, this leads to the very uncanny sensation that the fake hand is in fact part of their body. And the idea is that the congruence between seeing touch and feeling touch on an object that looks like hand and is roughly where a hand should be, is enough evidence for the brain to make its best guess that the fake hand is in fact part of the body.
再准备一些画笔。
(Laughter)
我们将测试者的一只真手遮盖起来， 取而代之的是这只橡胶手， 将橡胶手放在人们面前。 让人们注视着假手 然后用画笔同时轻触两只手。 对大多数人来说，只需很短的时间， 就会有不可思议的感觉， 你会感到假手成为了身体的一部分。 视觉触摸和感知触摸叠合在了一起 看起来就像是假手所在的地方大致就是手的位置， 这足以让大脑做出它的最佳推测 认为假手就是身体的一部分。
So you can measure all kinds of clever things. You can measure skin conductance and startle responses, but there's no need. It's clear the guy in blue has assimilated the fake hand. This means that even experiences of what our body is is a kind of best guessing — a kind of controlled hallucination by the brain.
（笑声）
There's one more thing. We don't just experience our bodies as objects in the world from the outside, we also experience them from within. We all experience the sense of being a body from the inside. And sensory signals coming from the inside of the body are continually telling the brain about the state of the internal organs, how the heart is doing, what the blood pressure is like, lots of things. This kind of perception, which we call interoception, is rather overlooked. But it's critically important because perception and regulation of the internal state of the body — well, that's what keeps us alive.
你可能懂得很多原理， 包括皮肤传导，惊吓反应， 但其实没什么必要。 显而易见身着蓝衣的测试者 真的将假手视为了自己身体的一部分。 这意味着，即使是我们对自己身体的认知 都只是一种最佳猜测—— 一种可控的大脑幻觉。
Here's another version of the rubber hand illusion. This is from our lab at Sussex. And here, people see a virtual reality version of their hand, which flashes red and back either in time or out of time with their heartbeat. And when it's flashing in time with their heartbeat, people have a stronger sense that it's in fact part of their body. So experiences of having a body are deeply grounded in perceiving our bodies from within.
还有一点。 我们不只是单纯地从外界 认知我们的身体， 我们也从本身来感受。 我们都从本身去感知、体验过身体。 这些感觉信号都由身体自身产生， 它们不断向大脑汇报 身体内器官的状况， 比如心脏是如何跳动的 血压是怎样的， 等等。 这一类型的感知 我们称之为“内感”， 常常被我们忽视， 但它们却异常重要。 因为对于体内状况的感知和规律的了解 是使我们活着的条件。
There's one last thing I want to draw your attention to, which is that experiences of the body from the inside are very different from experiences of the world around us. When I look around me, the world seems full of objects — tables, chairs, rubber hands, people, you lot — even my own body in the world, I can perceive it as an object from the outside. But my experiences of the body from within, they're not like that at all. I don't perceive my kidneys here, my liver here, my spleen ... I don't know where my spleen is, but it's somewhere. I don't perceive my insides as objects. In fact, I don't experience them much at all unless they go wrong. And this is important, I think. Perception of the internal state of the body isn't about figuring out what's there, it's about control and regulation — keeping the physiological variables within the tight bounds that are compatible with survival. When the brain uses predictions to figure out what's there, we perceive objects as the causes of sensations. When the brain uses predictions to control and regulate things, we experience how well or how badly that control is going.
还有另一种橡胶手错觉。 这是我们苏塞克斯大学实验室的试验。 人们看着他们虚拟现实中的手， 闪烁着红色， 闪烁频率和心率一致或是不同。 当闪烁频率和心率一致时， 人们会强烈地感到这是他们身体的一部分。 所以当我们从内感知我们的身体时 可以强烈地感到拥有一个身体。
So our most basic experiences of being a self, of being an embodied organism, are deeply grounded in the biological mechanisms that keep us alive. And when we follow this idea all the way through, we can start to see that all of our conscious experiences, since they all depend on the same mechanisms of predictive perception, all stem from this basic drive to stay alive. We experience the world and ourselves with, through and because of our living bodies.
最后我想要你们注意， 从内感知身体 远不同于从外感知 当我看着周围的事物时， 这个世界充斥着各种各样的东西—— 桌子，椅子，橡胶手， 人们，在座的各位—— 甚至包括我自己的身体， 我可以感知到它们是外界的一个物体。 但我的内在感知， 却完全不同。 我没有在这儿感知到我的肾脏， 我在这儿的肝脏， 我的脾脏 我也不知道我的脾脏在哪里， 但它就在某处。 我不认为我的身体内部的东西是物体。 实际上，除非他们病了 我是不会感觉到它们存在的。 我认为这很重要。 对于机体内部状况的认知 并不是弄明白它们在哪儿， 而是控制和调节—— 将生理参数保持在 与生存相适应的范围内。 当大脑用预测判断那是什么的时候， 我们感觉物体就是感觉的起因。 当大脑用预测控制和调节事物时 我们可以感知到控制的好与坏。
Let me bring things together step-by-step. What we consciously see depends on the brain's best guess of what's out there. Our experienced world comes from the inside out, not just the outside in. The rubber hand illusion shows that this applies to our experiences of what is and what is not our body. And these self-related predictions depend critically on sensory signals coming from deep inside the body. And finally, experiences of being an embodied self are more about control and regulation than figuring out what's there. So our experiences of the world around us and ourselves within it — well, they're kinds of controlled hallucinations that have been shaped over millions of years of evolution to keep us alive in worlds full of danger and opportunity. We predict ourselves into existence.
所以我们最基本的自我体验， 作为一个具体的有机体的体验， 深深扎根于维持我们生存的生物机制中。 当我们一路追寻个中原理， 我们会发现 我们所有的意识体验， 都依赖于相同的预测感知机制， 因为这一基本的驱动力 我们才能活着。 通过活着，也正是因为活着 我们才能感受世界和我们自己。
Now, I leave you with three implications of all this. First, just as we can misperceive the world, we can misperceive ourselves when the mechanisms of prediction go wrong. Understanding this opens many new opportunities in psychiatry and neurology, because we can finally get at the mechanisms rather than just treating the symptoms in conditions like depression and schizophrenia.
让我们一步一步来分析一下。 我们有意识看到的东西 是基于大脑对外界事物的最佳猜测。 我们对世界的体验也会由内而外产生， 并不只是由外到内的。 橡胶手错觉表明 这适用于我们对什么是 以及什么不是我们自己身体的体验。 这些与自我相关的预测主要依赖于 来自身体深处的感官信号。 最后， 作为一个具体化的自我的体验 更多的是关于控制和调节， 而不是去弄清楚到底是什么。 所以我们对外界事物及我们自己的感知， 都是可控的幻觉， 数百万年的进化形成了这些幻觉， 让我们能存活在这充满机遇和挑战的世界中。 我们推测我们是存在的。
Second: what it means to be me cannot be reduced to or uploaded to a software program running on a robot, however smart or sophisticated. We are biological, flesh-and-blood animals whose conscious experiences are shaped at all levels by the biological mechanisms that keep us alive. Just making computers smarter is not going to make them sentient.
现在我给大家三个启示。 第一，就像我们会误解世界一样， 当预测机制出错时 我们也会误解自我。 了解这点会在精神病学和神经学方面 挖掘出更多新的发现， 因为我们终于可以深入其中的机制 而不仅仅局限于治疗 抑郁症和精神分裂症的症状。
Finally, our own individual inner universe, our way of being conscious, is just one possible way of being conscious. And even human consciousness generally — it's just a tiny region in a vast space of possible consciousnesses. Our individual self and worlds are unique to each of us, but they're all grounded in biological mechanisms shared with many other living creatures.
第二： “成为自我”的意识 不能被上传到控制机器人的软件程序里， 无论它多聪明，多精密也不行。 我们是有血有肉的生物体， 我们的意识感知经由不同的层次塑造， 我们凭借生物机制活着。 即使电脑更加智能 它们也不会有知觉。
Now, these are fundamental changes in how we understand ourselves, but I think they should be celebrated, because as so often in science, from Copernicus — we're not at the center of the universe — to Darwin — we're related to all other creatures — to the present day. With a greater sense of understanding comes a greater sense of wonder, and a greater realization that we are part of and not apart from the rest of nature. And ... when the end of consciousness comes, there's nothing to be afraid of. Nothing at all.
最后， 我们内在的小宇宙， 我们人类存在意识的方式， 只是存在意识的其中一种方式。 即使人们普遍都存在意识， 在有意识的广阔空间里， 它也只是一个很小的区域。 自我和世界对我们每个人而言都是独一无二的， 但它们都以生物机制为基础， 所以同样也适用于其它生物体。
Thank you.
如今，我们对于“如何理解自我” 有了根本性的改变， 我想这是值得庆祝的事情， 因为科学界经常引用哥白尼的一句话： 我们不是宇宙的中心。 达尔文也说过： 万物皆相关， 直至今日。 我们有更强的理解力， 更大的惊奇感， 更好的认知力， 我们知道我们属于自然界的一部分， 密不可分。 而且······ 当我们失去意识时， 也无需害怕些什么。 根本没什么。
(Applause)
谢谢。