I'd like you to imagine, just for a moment, that your eyelashes grew inwards instead of outwards, so that every time you blinked, they would scrape the front of your eyeballs, damaging the corneas, so that slowly and painfully, you went blind.
﻿我想要各位想象一下， 你的眼睫毛向内生长， 而不是向外生长， 以至于每次你眨眼的时候， 眼睫毛就会刮伤你的眼球， 损伤你的角膜， 最终你慢慢地，痛苦地走向失明。
Well, that's what happens to a person who has trachoma. Now, this little boy here, Pamelo, from Zambia, he has trachoma. And if we don't do anything, he's going to go blind.
这种情况就发生在 患了砂眼的人身上。 这个来自赞比亚的小男孩 Pamelo就得了砂眼。 如果我们不采取任何 措施的话，他将会失明。
Trachoma is a curious disease. It's a bacterial infection that's passed from person to person and by flies. The repeated infection will scar your eyelids so that they contract and they turn inside out. It particularly affects women, because they have the contact with children. So what you'll often see in places like Ethiopia are girls who have tweezers like this around their necks, and they use them to pluck out their eyelashes. But of course, that only gives them temporary respite, because they just grow back more vicious than before.
砂眼是一种 通过患者的传染或苍蝇的接触而导致 细菌感染的怪病。 重复感染会使眼皮留下疤痕， 导致眼皮收缩并外翻。 这种病对女性的影响尤为明显， 因为她们和儿童有接触。 所以在埃塞俄比亚这样的地方， 你常常会看到脖子上 戴着像这样的镊子的女孩们， 她们会用镊子拔掉自己睫毛。 但是当然了，这只是治标不治本， 因为长回来的眼睫毛 反而会造成更大的伤害。
There are around two million people in the world who are blind or visually impaired because of trachoma. And we believe there may be as many as 200 million people who are at risk.
世界上因砂眼而失明 或患视觉障碍的人群 约有200万人， 并且我们相信，有潜在风险的人群 高达2亿人。
Now, it's a very old disease. What you can see is a photo of a wall of a tomb in Northern Sudan. A colleague and I were traveling in a very remote village, and we asked an old man to take us down into a little tomb. Now, on the wall, we saw two eyes. One is crying, and you can see there are tweezers next to it. Simon said to me, "My God, do you think that's trachoma?" So we sent this picture to the British Museum, and they confirmed that, yes, this is trachoma. So, thousands of years ago, the ancient Nubians were painting pictures of trachoma on the walls of their tomb. And the tragedy is that disease is still rampant in that area today. And the crazy thing is, we know how to stop it.
这是一种古老的疾病。 你现在看到的是 北苏丹墓穴里壁画的照片。 我和一位同事在一个 非常偏远的村落旅行时， 曾请求一位老人 带我们游览一小段墓穴。 在这面墙上，我们看到一双眼睛。 一只眼在流泪， 并且你可以看到旁边画有镊子。 西蒙问我：“天呐， 你觉不觉得那是砂眼？” 于是我们将这张照片 发送给了大英博物馆， 然后他们证实了， 没错，这的确是砂眼。 所以，数千年前， 古努比亚人就在他们洞穴的墙上， 刻画下了砂眼的症状。 可悲的是， 这个疾病至今仍在那片地区肆虐着。 而讽刺的是，我们早就知道 如何终止该疾病的蔓延。
And what's great is that the trachoma community have all come together to pool their efforts. We don't compete; we collaborate.
庆幸的是，砂眼社群的 人们已经聚集在一起， 齐心协力的对抗这种疾病。 我们彼此没有竞争，只是单纯的合作。
I have to tell you, that's not always the case in my experience in the NGO world. We've created something called the International Coalition for Trachoma Control. And together, we've developed a strategy to fight it. This strategy is called the SAFE strategy, and it's been approved by the World Health Organization.
我必须要告诉你们， 根据我在非政府组织中的经验， 这种情况并不常见。 我们成立了一个叫 “国际砂眼控制联盟”的组织， 并且共同制定了 一个策略去对抗砂眼。 这个策略叫做 SAFE策略， 已经得到了世界卫生组织的认可。
The "S" stands for "surgery." It's very straightforward procedure to turn the eyelids back the right way. We train nurses to do it, and they use local anesthetics. And as you can see, you can do it in somebody's front porch, if need be.
“S”代表手术。 眼睑矫正 是一个非常简单的手术。 我们培训护士做这种手术， 用局部麻醉， 可以看到，必要的时候 在门前的走廊就可以做。
Then "A" stands for "antibiotics." These are donated by Pfizer, who also pay for those drugs to be transported to the port in-country. From there, they're taken to the villages, where hundreds of thousands of community volunteers will distribute those drugs to the people. Now, we train those volunteers, and we also help the ministries with all that complex logistics. And every one of those volunteers has a pole like this. It's called a "dose pole." This one's from Cameroon. And you can see it's marked different colors, and you can tell how many pills you should give somebody, based on how tall they are.
“A”代表抗生素。 辉瑞捐赠了这些抗生素， 并支付了运输到 这些国家港口的费用。 这些抗生素将从那里被送到各个村落， 成千上万的社区义工 会分发这些药物给患者。 我们负责培训那些义工， 也帮助有关部门解决复杂的物流问题。 每一个义工都有一个像这样的杆子， 我们叫它“剂量杆”。 这只杆子来自喀麦隆。 你可以看到这只杆子 被标记上了不同的颜色， 根据人们的身高，可以知道 需要给他们多少剂量的药物。
"F" stands for "face washing." Now, we used to have trachoma in the UK and in the US. In fact, President Carter, he talks about how trachoma was a real problem in Georgia when he was a little boy. And in the UK, the famous eye hospital, Moorfields, was originally a trachoma hospital. What we do is teach kids like this how important it is to wash their faces.
“F”代表面部清洁。 在英国和美国曾经流行过砂眼症。 事实上，卡特总统 讲述过在他小的时候， 砂眼在乔治亚地区 是个多么严重的问题。 而且在英国，这个非常有名的 眼科医院，摩菲医院， 最初是一个砂眼专科医院。 我们教这样的孩子洗脸的重要性。
And finally, "E" stands for "environment," where we help the communities build latrines, and we teach them to separate their animals from their living quarters in order to reduce the fly population. So we know how to tackle the disease. But we need to know where it is. And we do, because a few years ago, Sightsavers led an incredible program called the Global Trachoma Mapping Project. It took us three years, but we went through 29 countries, and we taught local health workers to go district by district, and they examined the eyelids of over two and a half million people. And they used Android phones in order to download the data. And from that, we were able to build a map that showed us where the disease was. Now, this is a very high-level map that shows you which countries had a problem with trachoma.
最后，“E”代表环境。 我们帮助部落建造公共厕所， 并且教他们要把动物 从他们的住所分离开， 从而减少苍蝇的数量。 所以，我们知道 如何去对付这个疾病， 但是，我们需要知道 这个疾病都分布在哪儿。 其实我们是知道的， 因为在数年前，护眼使者们 发起过一项不可思议的项目， 叫做“全球砂眼测绘项目”。 虽然只花了三年的时间， 但我们已经走过了29个国家， 教当地的医疗工作者挨家挨户寻访， 检查了超过250万人的眼睑， 并且用安卓手机下载数据。 由此，我们可以绘制一个 疾病的分布图。 这是一个显示哪些国家 存在砂眼问题的非常准确的地图。 也许你们会问我， “这个策略真的有用吗？” 是的，有用。
And you may ask me, "Well, does this strategy actually work?" Yes, it does. This map shows you the progress that we've made to date. The green countries believe they've already eliminated trachoma, and they have either been through or are in the process of having that validated by the WHO. Countries in yellow have the money they need, they have the resources to eliminate trachoma. And some of them are really nearly there. But the red countries, they don't have enough funding. They cannot eliminate trachoma unless they get more. And we're quite concerned, though, that the progress to date may stall.
这个地图显示了 至今为止我们的进度。 绿色的国家相信 他们已经消灭了砂眼症， 他们的进展已经或者正在 被世界卫生组织证实。 黄色的国家拥有所需资金， 也有资源去消灭砂眼症。 这其中的一些国家 已经非常接近这个目标了。 但是红色的国家没有足够资金， 除非他们有更多钱， 否则无法消灭砂眼。 我们非常担心进度会被拖延。
So when we were talking to the Audacious ideas guys, we asked ourselves: If we really, really pushed ourselves over the next four or five years and we had the money, what do we think we could achieve?
所以，当我们和喜欢提出 大胆设想的人讨论时， 我们也会自问： 在之后的四或五年， 如果我们非常非常努力， 并且有足够的钱， 我们会实现什么样的成就？
Well, we believe that we can eliminate trachoma in 12 African countries and across the Americas and all across the Pacific. And we can make significant progress in two countries which have the highest burden of the disease, which is Ethiopia and Nigeria. And in doing all of that, we can leverage more than two billion dollars' worth of donated drugs.
我们相信，我们可以消灭 12个非洲国家的砂眼症， 和美洲的砂眼症， 以及全太平洋地区的砂眼症。 我们可以在两个砂眼症最严重的国家， 埃塞俄比亚和尼日利亚 取得显著的进展。 与此同时， 我们可以有效利用超过 二十亿美元的捐赠药品。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
Now, this map here shows you the impact that we'll have -- look how many countries are going green. And there, you can see progress in Ethiopia and Nigeria. Now, yes, there are some countries that are still red. These are mainly countries which are in conflict -- places like Yemen, South Sudan -- where it's very difficult to work. So, we have the team, the strategy and the map. And we also have the relationships with the governments so that we can make sure that our program is coordinated with other disease-control programs, so that we can be efficient. Wouldn't it be amazing if we could do this? We'd have trachoma on the run. We would be on the home straight to eliminate this disease from the whole world.
这张地图显示了 我们将会产生的影响 —— 有这么多国家将要变成绿色。 你们也可以看到埃塞俄比亚 和尼日利亚的进度。 是的，有一些国家仍是红色。 主要是那些有战争冲突的国家， 比如也门，南苏丹—— 在这些地区难于展开工作。 所以，我们有团队，策略和地图。 我们与政府也建立了合作关系， 以确保我们的项目 和其他的疾病控制项目 可以相互协调， 从而提高效率。 这听起来是不是很棒？ 我们可以让砂眼疲于奔命， 我们可以以迅雷之势 让这个疾病在世界范围内彻底消失。
But before I finish, I just want to share with you some words from the founder of Sightsavers, a guy called Sir John Wilson. Now, he was blinded at the age of 12. And he said, "People don't go blind by the million. They go blind one by one." And in the excitement of being able to say we've got rid of trachoma for the whole country, let's not forget that, actually, this is a devastating disease that destroys the lives of individual people.
但是在演讲结束之前， 我想要与你们分享， “护眼使者”创始人的一些话， 他叫 约翰 · 威尔逊爵士。 他在12岁的时候失明了。 他说过， “失明不会一夜之间 发生在成千上万的人身上， 而是会互相传染。” 如果我们能说我们已经 消灭了一个国家的砂眼症， 那自然让人无比兴奋。 但不要忘记，这其实 是一个毁灭性的疾病， 它摧毁的是许多个体的生活，
People like Twiba. Now, I met Twiba last year in Tanzania. She had had trachoma for as long as she could remember. And a couple of months before I met her, she'd had the operation. It's no exaggeration to say that this had totally transformed her life. We'd saved the sight that she had left, and she was free of pain. She could sleep. She could work, she could socialize. And she said to me, "I have my life back." And it was impossible not to be moved by her story. But there are so many Twibas. I want to find all the Twibas, and I don't want anyone to go blind in agony anymore.
比如像Twiba这样的人。 我于去年在坦桑尼亚遇到Twiba。 她自从记事起就得了砂眼， 在我见到她的几个月前， 她已经做了手术。 不夸张地说， 这完全转变了她的人生。 我们拯救了她剩余的视力， 而且帮助她摆脱了疼痛。 她可以正常睡觉， 工作，以及社交。 她对我说， “我的人生回来了。” 她的故事很难不让人动容。 但是有太多像Twiba一样的人了。 我想要找到所有像Twiba一样的人， 我不希望任何人再在痛苦中失明。
Now, you know, there are so many intractable problems in this world. But this is not one of them. This is something that we can solve. And we can ensure that kids like this can grow up free from the fear of trachoma. So, for the sake of kids like this, and for the sake of people like Twiba, let's get rid of trachoma. Do you think we can? Well, yeah, if we really, really want to. Yes, we can.
众所周知，这个世界上 有太多棘手的问题， 但砂眼症并不是其中之一。 这是我们可以解决的问题。 我们可以确保 这些孩子们不会在砂眼的恐惧中成长。 所以为了孩子们， 为了像Twiba一样的人们， 让我们消灭砂眼。 你们觉得我们能做到吗？ 如果我们对此坚定不移—— 是的，我们做得到。
So thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）