According to the UN, billions of people still live without an address. The economist Hernando de Soto said, "Without an address, you live outside the law. You might as well not exist." I'm here to tell you how my team and I are trying to change that.
﻿根据联合国提供的数据， 数十亿人依旧没有地址。 经济学家埃尔南多·德·索托曾经说过， “没有地址， 你就居于法外之地。 你甚至有可能不存在。” 我想跟大家分享， 我的团队和我如何试图改变这种现状。
If you go to an online map and look at a favela in Brazil or a township in South Africa, you'll see a few streets but a lot of empty space. But if you flip to satellite view, there are thousands of people, homes and businesses in this vast, unmapped and unaddressed spaces. In Ghana's capital, Accra, there are numbers and letters scrawled onto the sides of walls, where they piloted address systems but not finished them. But these places, these unaddressed places, hold huge economic potential.
如果你在在线地图上看巴西的贫民窟， 或者南非的某个小镇， 你只能看到寥寥几条街道， 却有大片的空地。 但如果你切换到卫星视图， 你就会发现在那片巨大的， 地图上未标注的空地上， 有成千上万的居民、房屋和店铺。 在加纳首都阿克拉， 人们会在墙壁上 刻下潦草的数字和字母， 这就是他们简易的， 尚未完成的地址系统。 但这些没有地址的地方， 却有着巨大的经济潜力。
Here's why the issue of addressing stuck with me. I worked in the music business for 10 years, and what you may not know about the music world is that every day, people struggle with the problems of addressing. So from the musicians who have to find the gigs to the production companies who bring the equipment, everyone somehow always gets lost. We even had to add someone to our schedules who was the person you called when you thought you'd arrived but then realized you hadn't. And we had some pretty bad days, like in Italy, where a truck driver unloaded all the equipment an hour north of Rome, not an hour south of Rome, and a slightly worse day where a keyboard player called me and said, "Chris, don't panic, but we may have just sound-checked at the wrong people's wedding."
为什么我如此在意地址这件事呢。 我在音乐行业工作了10年， 音乐界有一件事可能大家不了解， 就是每天我们都会遇到地址的问题。 音乐家要找到演奏地点， 演出公司要提供乐器， 大家永远处于迷路的状态。 我们甚至要在日程中加上联络人， 我们认为自己已经到了， 就给他打电话， 结果发现并没有到。 我们遇到过非常糟糕的情况， 比如在意大利， 卡车司机把所有的乐器 卸到了罗马以北一小时车程的地方， 而实际应该是以南一小时， 还有更糟糕的情况， 键盘手给我打电话， “克里斯，不要抓狂， 我们刚刚貌似在别人的婚礼上 完成了试音工作。”
(Laughter)
（笑声）
So not long after the fated Rome event, I chatted this through with a friend of mine who is a mathematician, and we thought it was a problem we could do something about. We thought, well, we could make a new system, but it shouldn't look like the old system. We agreed that addresses were bad. We knew we wanted something very precise, but GPS coordinates, latitude and longitude, were just too complicated.
在罗马的悲剧发生后不久， 我跟一位朋友聊起这件事， 他是一名数学家， 我们觉得可以做点什么 来解决这个问题。 我们想，也许可以做一个新的系统， 要跟旧系统有所区别。 我们都承认地址不好用。 我们明白自己想让它变得更加明确， 但是GPS坐标，经纬度这些， 又太过复杂。
So we divided the world into three-meter squares. The world divides into around 57 trillion three-meter squares, and we found that there are enough combinations of three dictionary words that we could name every three-meter square in the world uniquely with just three words. We used 40,000 words, so that's 40,000 cubed, 64 trillion combinations of three words, which is more than enough for the 57-trillion-odd three-meter squares, with a few spare. So that's exactly what we did. We divided the world into three-meter squares, gave each one a unique, three-word identifier -- what we call a three-word address. So for example, right here, I'm standing at mustards.coupons.pinup,
因此我们将整个世界 划成了3米见方的格子。 全世界总共被分成了57万亿个方格， 我们发现，只要用3个词 就能组成足够多的组合， 来给全世界所有3米见方的小格子 取一个独一无二的名字。 我们挑了4万个词， 4万的3次方， 就是64万亿个由3个词组成的词组， 对于57万亿个3米见方的 小格子而言，足够用了， 还能剩下一些。 这就是我们所做的事情。 我们将世界划成3米见方的小格子， 给每一个格子一个独一无二的、 由3个单词组成的识别码， 我们称之为“三字地址”。 举个例子，我现在站的地方， 就叫“芥末、优惠券、招贴画”，
(Laughter)
（笑声）
but over here ... I'm standing at pinched. singularly.tutorial.
但如果走到这， 就是“清瘦的、奇怪地、辅导课”。
But we haven't just done this in English. We thought it was essential that people should be able to use this system in their own language. So far, we've built it into 14 languages, including French, Swahili and Arabic, and we're working on more now, like Xhosa, Zulu and Hindi.
我们不光用英文单词。 我们觉得让大家用自己的语言 来使用这个系统非常重要。 到目前为止，我们已经完成了14种语言， 包括法语、斯瓦西里语和阿拉伯语， 我们正在做更多的语言， 像豪萨语、祖鲁语和印地语。
But this idea can do a lot more than just get my musicians to their gigs on time. If the 75 percent of countries that struggle with reliable addressing started using three-word addresses, there's a stack of far more important applications. In Durban, South Africa, an NGO called Gateway Health have distributed 11,000 three-word address signs to their community, so the pregnant mothers, when they go into labor, can call the emergency services and tell them exactly where to pick them up from, because otherwise, the ambulances have often taken hours to find them. In Mongolia, the National Post Service have adopted the system and are now doing deliveries to many people's houses for the first time. The UN are using it to geotag photos in disaster zones so they can deliver aid to exactly the right place. Even Domino's Pizza are using it in the Caribbean, because they haven't been able to find customers' homes, but they really want to get their pizza to them while its still hot.
但这件事的意义 远比让我的音乐家们 准时抵达演奏地点要大得多。 如果那些因为没有准确的地址 而深受其苦的国家中， 有75%开始使用“三字地址”， 就会有许多更加重要的应用。 在南非的德班， 有一个叫“健康途径”的非政府组织， 向当地社区发放了11000个 三字地址牌， 当怀孕的妈妈临盆之际， 就可以打急救电话， 告诉他们准确的地址， 否则的话，救护车可能 得花好几个小时才能找到她。 蒙古的国家邮政局 也开始采用这套系统， 第一次为许多家庭 送去了邮件。 联合国使用这套系统 来为受灾区域加注地理标签， 以便精确送达救援物资。 甚至是达美乐披萨， 也在加勒比地区使用这套系统， 因为他们也经常 找不到顾客的家庭地址， 而他们又真的需要保证 披萨送到的时候还是热的。
Shortly, you'll be able to get into a car, speak the three words, and the car will navigate you to that exact spot. In Africa, the continent has leapfrogged phone lines to go to mobile phones, bypassed traditional banks to go straight to mobile payments. We're really proud that the post services of three African countries -- Nigeria, Djibouti and Côte d'Ivoire, have gone straight to adopting three-word addresses, which means that people in those countries have a really simple way to explain where they live, today.
很快，你就可以在上车之后， 说出3个单词， 汽车就会把你送到准确的位置。 在非洲，他们跳过了固定电话， 直接进入移动电话时代， 跳过了传统的银行服务， 直接进入移动支付时代。 我们很自豪， 将3个非洲国家的邮政服务， 尼日利亚，吉布提和科特迪瓦， 直接带入了三字地址时代， 这些国家的人们 如今可以非常简单地 描述出自己住在哪里。
For me, poor addressing was an annoying frustration, but for billions of people, it's a huge business inefficiency, severely hampers their infrastructure growth, and can cost lives. We're on a mission to change that, three words at a time.
对我而言，地址不好用 只是一件烦心事， 但对于数十亿其他人而言， 是非常低效的商业， 严重阻碍他们的基础设施建设， 甚至会影响生死。 我们的使命就是改变它， 从3个单词开始。
Thank you.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
（掌声）