So there's a lot of valid concern these days that our technology is getting so smart that we've put ourselves on the path to a jobless future. And I think the example of a self-driving car is actually the easiest one to see. So these are going to be fantastic for all kinds of different reasons. But did you know that "driver" is actually the most common job in 29 of the 50 US states? What's going to happen to these jobs when we're no longer driving our cars or cooking our food or even diagnosing our own diseases?
﻿当今有许多实实在在的担心 技术正在变得如此智能 我们几乎是在把自己引向失业 自动驾驶汽车 是其中最浅显的一个例子 不管怎样 自动驾驶都是非常棒的事情 但你是否知道 在美国50个州其中的29个 司机都是最普遍的职业 当我们不再需要司机驾驶汽车 也不需要人来烹饪食物 甚至不需要医生来诊断疾病 这些工作岗位将何去何从呢
Well, a recent study from Forrester Research goes so far to predict that 25 million jobs might disappear over the next 10 years. To put that in perspective, that's three times as many jobs lost in the aftermath of the financial crisis. And it's not just blue-collar jobs that are at risk. On Wall Street and across Silicon Valley, we are seeing tremendous gains in the quality of analysis and decision-making because of machine learning. So even the smartest, highest-paid people will be affected by this change.
一个来自弗雷斯特研究的最新研究 甚至预计有两千五百万个工作 可能会在接下来的十年内消失 换个方式说 这相当于金融危机之后 消失的职业数量的三倍 而且不只是蓝领职业有消失的危险 放眼整个华尔街和硅谷 机器学习在 分析和决策中的应用 均取得了巨大的成就 即便是最聪明 最高薪的人 也会被这个改变所影响
What's clear is that no matter what your job is, at least some, if not all of your work, is going to be done by a robot or software in the next few years. And that's exactly why people like Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates are talking about the need for government-funded minimum income levels. But if our politicians can't agree on things like health care or even school lunches, I just don't see a path where they'll find consensus on something as big and as expensive as universal basic life income. Instead, I think the response needs to be led by us in industry. We have to recognize the change that's ahead of us and start to design the new kinds of jobs that will still be relevant in the age of robotics.
很明显的是无论你的职业是什么 即便不是全部 也会有一部分 会在接下来的几年里 被机器人或软件所取代 而这恰恰是像马克·扎克伯格 和比尔·盖茨这样的人 在讨论政府需要保障人们 最低收入水平的原因 但如果政客们连医保 学校午餐之类的事情 都无法达成一致 我不觉得他们能在这样 巨大且昂贵的全民基本 生活保障的事情上达成一致 反而我认为应该由 我们行业自身的人去引导 我们要意识到前方的变化 并着手设计新的工作形式 使其在机器时代仍具有意义
The good news is that we have faced down and recovered two mass extinctions of jobs before. From 1870 to 1970, the percent of American workers based on farms fell by 90 percent, and then again from 1950 to 2010, the percent of Americans working in factories fell by 75 percent. The challenge we face this time, however, is one of time. We had a hundred years to move from farms to factories, and then 60 years to fully build out a service economy. The rate of change today suggests that we may only have 10 or 15 years to adjust, and if we don't react fast enough, that means by the time today's elementary-school students are college-aged, we could be living in a world that's robotic, largely unemployed and stuck in kind of un-great depression.
好消息是我们之前经历过 两次大的失业潮和经济复苏 1870年到1970年间 在农场工作的美国工人 数量下降了90% 而从1950年到2010年 在工厂里的美国工人数量 下降了75% 而我们这次面临的挑战是“时间” 我们有100年的时间从农场转向工厂 又花了60年去建设服务业经济 如今的变化速度 意味着我们只有10到15年来调整 如果我们不尽快作出反应 那就意味着当今天的小学生 上大学的时候 我们就会生活在一个充斥着机器人 并伴随大量失业人群的萧条世界里了
But I don't think it has to be this way. You see, I work in innovation, and part of my job is to shape how large companies apply new technologies. Certainly some of these technologies are even specifically designed to replace human workers. But I believe that if we start taking steps right now to change the nature of work, we can not only create environments where people love coming to work but also generate the innovation that we need to replace the millions of jobs that will be lost to technology. I believe that the key to preventing our jobless future is to rediscover what makes us human, and to create a new generation of human-centered jobs that allow us to unlock the hidden talents and passions that we carry with us every day.
但我不认为这样的结果是注定的 我的工作是革新 我的部分工作是帮助 大公司应用新的技术 而其中有些技术 就是专门设计来取代人类工作者 但是我相信如果我们现在开始着手 去改变工作的本质 我们不仅可以创造 人们所热爱的工作环境 而且还可以产生我们所需要的创新 来代替终将流失于技术的数百万职业 我认为预防我们未来失业的关键在于 重新发现人类自身 并创造新一代的以人为本的职业 来释放人类身上 隐藏的天赋和激情
But first, I think it's important to recognize that we brought this problem on ourselves. And it's not just because, you know, we are the one building the robots. But even though most jobs left the factory decades ago, we still hold on to this factory mindset of standardization and de-skilling. We still define jobs around procedural tasks and then pay people for the number of hours that they perform these tasks. We've created narrow job definitions like cashier, loan processor or taxi driver and then asked people to form entire careers around these singular tasks.
但首先我认为很重要的 是需要认识到 问题是我们自己造成的 不仅仅是因为我们创造了机器人 尽管几十年间很多工作 就已经与工厂无关 我们却仍然固守着工厂 那种去技能化的标准化思维 我们仍围绕程序化的任务来定义工作 然后按照人们执行任务的 小时数付他们薪水 我们创造了狭隘的工作定义 比如收银员 贷款业务员 出租车司机 然后让人们围着这些单调的任务 去打造整个职业生涯
These choices have left us with actually two dangerous side effects. The first is that these narrowly defined jobs will be the first to be displaced by robots, because single-task robots are just the easiest kinds to build. But second, we have accidentally made it so that millions of workers around the world have unbelievably boring working lives.
这些选择事实上带给 我们两个危险的副作用 首先 这些被狭隘定义的工作 会最先被机器人替代 因为单任务的机器人是最容易制造的 其次 这种不经意间的选择 让全世界成千上万的人 从事着难以置信的无聊工作
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Let's take the example of a call center agent. Over the last few decades, we brag about lower operating costs because we've taken most of the need for brainpower out of the person and put it into the system. For most of their day, they click on screens, they read scripts. They act more like machines than humans. And unfortunately, over the next few years, as our technology gets more advanced, they, along with people like clerks and bookkeepers, will see the vast majority of their work disappear.
我们来看个呼叫中心客服的例子 过去的几十年间 我们夸耀着更低的运行费用 因为我们把对脑力的大部分要求 从人身上拿出来放进了应答系统中 所以在一天的大多数时间里 他们只是在点击着屏幕 念念稿子 行为模式更像机器而不是人类 而且不幸的是 在接下来的几年里 随着我们的技术变得更加先进 他们以及诸如书记员和 簿记员那样的人 将会面临大量工作机会的丧失
To counteract this, we have to start creating new jobs that are less centered on the tasks that a person does and more focused on the skills that a person brings to work. For example, robots are great at repetitive and constrained work, but human beings have an amazing ability to bring together capability with creativity when faced with problems that we've never seen before. It's when every day brings a little bit of a surprise that we have designed work for humans and not for robots. Our entrepreneurs and engineers already live in this world, but so do our nurses and our plumbers and our therapists. You know, it's the nature of too many companies and organizations to just ask people to come to work and do your job. But if you work is better done by a robot, or your decisions better made by an AI, what are you supposed to be doing?
要应对这点 我们必须开始创造新的职业 那种不那么以人的任务为中心 而是更集中在人的 工作技巧层面的职业 比如机器更适合重复性和受限的工作 但是人类具有不可思议的 富有创造力的能力 去应对那些从未遇到的新问题 当我们给人类而非机器人 设计工作时 每天都可以 带来一点惊喜 我们的企业家和工程师 早已经出现在这个世上 我们的护士和水管工 心理咨询师也同样如此 如今太多的公司和组织 只是让人们来上个班做个工作 但如果你的工作 机器人可以完成得更好 或者机器人做决定都比你强 你还能做什么呢
Well, I think for the manager, we need to realistically think about the tasks that will be disappearing over the next few years and start planning for more meaningful, more valuable work that should replace it. We need to create environments where both human beings and robots thrive. I say, let's give more work to the robots, and let's start with the work that we absolutely hate doing. Here, robot, process this painfully idiotic report.
我认为对于管理者而言 我们需要现实地思考一下 在接下来几年里 会消失的任务 并且开始计划用更有意义 更有价值的工作去替代它们 我们需要创造环境 人类和机器人都可以共同成长的环境 让我们给机器人更多的工作 就从最讨厌做的工作开始 嘿 机器人 处理掉这个愚蠢的报道
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And move this box. Thank you.
再搬走这个盒子 谢谢
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And for the human beings, we should follow the advice from Harry Davis at the University of Chicago. He says we have to make it so that people don't leave too much of themselves in the trunk of their car. I mean, human beings are amazing on weekends. Think about the people that you know and what they do on Saturdays. They're artists, carpenters, chefs and athletes. But on Monday, they're back to being Junior HR Specialist and Systems Analyst 3.
对于人类自身 我们应该遵从芝加哥大学 哈利·戴维斯的建议 他说我们需要做到让人们不把自己 放在他们的后备箱中 我的意思是 人们在周末会变得非常厉害 想一想你认识的人 以及他们在周六做的事 他们是艺术家 木匠 厨师 运动员 但是在周一 他们又变成了HR菜鸟 或3号系统分析员
(Laughter)
（笑声）
You know, these narrow job titles not only sound boring, but they're actually a subtle encouragement for people to make narrow and boring job contributions. But I've seen firsthand that when you invite people to be more, they can amaze us with how much more they can be.
这些狭隘的职业名称不仅听上去很无趣 它们其实还潜移默化鼓动人们 去为狭隘和无聊的职业奉献 我已经见识过了 当你邀请人们做得更多时 他们却能让我们刮目相看
A few years ago, I was working at a large bank that was trying to bring more innovation into its company culture. So my team and I designed a prototyping contest that invited anyone to build anything that they wanted. We were actually trying to figure out whether or not the primary limiter to innovation was a lack of ideas or a lack of talent, and it turns out it was neither one. It was an empowerment problem. And the results of the program were amazing. We started by inviting people to reenvision what it is they could bring to a team. This contest was not only a chance to build anything that you wanted but also be anything that you wanted. And when people were no longer limited by their day-to-day job titles, they felt free to bring all kinds of different skills and talents to the problems that they were trying to solve. We saw technology people being designers, marketing people being architects, and even finance people showing off their ability to write jokes.
几年前 我在一个大银行工作 并试着把更多的创新 带进它的公司文化中 我和我的团队设计了一个模型比赛 邀请每一个人来建造 任何他们想建造的东西 我们其实在试着找出 限制创新的主要原因究竟是 缺少想法还是缺少天赋 结果两者都不是 这是一个关于授权的问题 这个项目的结果非常惊人 我们起初邀请人们来重新构想 他们能给团队带来的东西 这个比赛不仅是一个 天马行空去创造的事情 也是一个做你自己的机会 当人们不再被他们 每天的工作头衔所限制时 他们会尽情的把 各种不同的技能和天赋 应用到尝试要解决的问题中去 我们看见技术人员成为设计师 营销人员变成建筑师 金融人员化身为段子手
(Laughter)
（笑声）
We ran this program twice, and each time more than 400 people brought their unexpected talents to work and solved problems that they had been wanting to solve for years. Collectively, they created millions of dollars of value, building things like a better touch-tone system for call centers, easier desktop tools for branches and even a thank you card system that has become a cornerstone of the employee working experience. Over the course of the eight weeks, people flexed muscles that they never dreamed of using at work. People learned new skills, they met new people, and at the end, somebody pulled me aside and said, "I have to tell you, the last few weeks has been one of the most intense, hardest working experiences of my entire life, but not one second of it felt like work."
我们运作了这个项目两次 而每一次都有400多人为工作 带来了他们意想不到的天赋 并且解决了他们很多年前 就想解决的问题 他们共同创造了数百万美元的价值 创建了更好的呼叫中心按键系统 更易于使用的桌面工具 甚至还有一个感谢信系统 这些都成为员工工作体验的基石 在八周的时间里 人们在工作中展现了 他们从未想象过的神通 人们学会了新的技巧 他们结交了新的朋友 最后有个人把我拉到一边说 我得告诉你 这几个礼拜是我这辈子 最紧张 最辛苦的工作经历 但我没有一刻感觉是在工作
And that's the key. For those few weeks, people got to be creators and innovators. They had been dreaming of solutions to problems that had been bugging them for years, and this was a chance to turn those dreams into a reality. And that dreaming is an important part of what separates us from machines. For now, our machines do not get frustrated, they do not get annoyed, and they certainly don't imagine.
那就是关键 在那几周里 人们需要 成为创造者和革新者 他们一直梦想着解决 那些烦扰了他们好多年的问题 而这是一个把这些 梦想变为现实的机会 而梦想是我们区别于机器的重要部分 目前我们的机器不会有挫败感 它们不会被惹怒 它们当然也不具有想象力
But we, as human beings -- we feel pain, we get frustrated. And it's when we're most annoyed and most curious that we're motivated to dig into a problem and create change. Our imaginations are the birthplace of new products, new services, and even new industries.
但是我们 作为人类 我们会感到痛苦 我们会觉得沮丧 而我们最为烦恼和最为好奇之时 就是我们产生动力去 深究问题并作出改变之时 我们的想象力是新产品 新服务 甚至新工业的诞生地
I believe that the jobs of the future will come from the minds of people who today we call analysts and specialists, but only if we give them the freedom and protection that they need to grow into becoming explorers and inventors. If we really want to robot-proof our jobs, we, as leaders, need to get out of the mindset of telling people what to do and instead start asking them what problems they're inspired to solve and what talents they want to bring to work. Because when you can bring your Saturday self to work on Wednesdays, you'll look forward to Mondays more, and those feelings that we have about Mondays are part of what makes us human.
我相信未来的职业 源于人们的头脑 他们在今天被称作分析员和专家 但这只会在我们为他们 成为发现者和发明家 提供足够的自由和保护的情况下发生 如果我们确实想让 工作不被机器人取代 我们 作为领导者 需要抛弃 指使人们做事的模式 反而应该询问他们想解决什么问题 以及他们想把什么天赋带到工作中 因为当你可以把周六的自己 带到周三的工作中时 你会更期待周一 而那些对周一的感觉 是我们人类的一部分
And as we redesign work for an era of intelligent machines, I invite you all to work alongside me to bring more humanity to our working lives.
在为人工智能时代 重新设计工作的过程中 我邀请你们所有人和我一起努力 把更多的人性带入 我们的工作生活中
Thank you.
谢谢 （掌声）