So, Ma was trying to explain something to me about Grandma and when they grew up, but I couldn't pay attention to her because I was five years old, and I was petrified. I had just seen The Green Lady. Now, about a week earlier, I'd watched that movie "Godzilla," the one about that huge lizard-like beast storming a major city, and the thought of a green monster coming for me was stuck in my mind. And yet there I was, at the tip of Lower Manhattan with my mom, just staring at her: her horns, her muscles -- all of it just frightened me. And I didn't know whether she was a monster or a hero. So I decided to consult the Google of the day -- "Ma! Ma!"
﻿母亲试图向我介绍 关于祖母和她们的过去 但我没有兴趣 因为我只有5岁，而且吓坏了 刚看完“绿魔女” 一周前，我看了电影“哥斯拉” 巨蜥野兽冲击一个主要城市 绿色怪物在我脑中挥之不去 而我和母亲住在下曼哈顿一端 看着她 她的犄角 她的肌肉 所有一切让我害怕 不知道她是怪兽还是英雄 那天我决定用google来搜索 “”妈！妈！
(Laughter)
（笑）
My mother explained that The Green Lady is actually the Statue of Liberty and that she was waving immigrants in. Now, the part of her explanation that really messed with my young head was the fact that, according to Ma, long before us, The Green Lady was actually brown, brown like me, and that she changed colors over the years, much like America. Now, the part that really is intriguing about this is that when she changed colors, she made me think about myself. It all made sense to me, because as a first-generation American, I was surrounded by immigrants. In fact, within my immediate social circle of the people who support me, who enrich my life, at least two are foreign-born. My life as a US citizen is in many ways shaped by newcomers, and chances are, so is yours.
母亲解释说绿魔女实际上是自由女神像 正向移民展开怀抱 她的部分介绍让我迷惑不解 据母亲说，事实上 很久以前 绿魔女实际上是棕色的 像我一样（棕色） 这些年颜色改变了 更像一个美国人 真正让我感兴趣的部分是 她改变颜色 让我联想到自己 让我豁然开朗 作为第一代美国移民 我周围都是移民 实际上，在我最亲密社交圈子里面支持我 丰富我的人中 至少有2个是出生国外 我作为美国公民，一直被新来者塑造 改变 你也和我一样的
There are more than 40 million immigrants in the USA. According to census data, a quarter of the nation's children have at least one foreign-born parent. I know all these statistics because I study global migration patterns. I'm a journalist, and for the last few years, I've been documenting the lives of US citizens who've lost people to deportation. And the numbers are enormous. From 2008 to 2016, more than three million people were "ordered removed" -- that's the technical term for being deported. There is an economic, a political, a psychological and an emotional cost to those deportations -- the moments when these circles are broken.
在美国有4000万移民 据人口统计数据 1/4美国儿童，至少有一个父母是海外出生的 我研究全球移民模式，所以我知道这些统计数据 在去过几年中我是一名记者， 我一直在记录美国公民的生活--- 那些被驱逐者 数字是惊人的 从2008到2016年 有超过300万人被“下驱除令” 就是被驱除离境的技术术语 存在经济，政治，心理和情感成本 对于驱逐而言 在圈子被破坏的时刻
I once asked a US soldier, "Why did you volunteer to fight this war?"
我曾经问过一个美国士兵 “你为什么自愿参军来打仗？”
And she told me, "Because I'm proud to defend my country."
她告诉我 “我很自豪保卫我的国家”
But I pressed to know -- "Really, when you're on base, and you hear bombs exploding in the distance, and you see soldiers coming back who are gravely injured, in that moment, when you know you could be next, what does 'my country' mean?"
我继续采访她--- “真的吗？当你在前线， 你听见炮弹在前方爆炸 看见下来的士兵严重受伤 在那个时刻，你知道自己也许就是下一个 “国家”对你到底意味什么？
She looked at me. "My country is my wife, my family, my friends, my soldiers." What she was telling me is that "my country" is a collection of these strong relationships; these social circles.
她看着我 “我的国家就是我的妻子， 家庭 朋友，队友。“ 她要告诉我的是， “我的国家”是强有力关系的集合； 社交圈
When the social circles are weakened, a country itself is weaker. We're missing a crucial aspect in the debate about immigration policy. Rather than focusing on individuals, we should focus on the circles around them, because these are the people who are left behind: the voters, the taxpayers, the ones who are suffering that loss. And it's not just the children of the deported who are impacted. You have brothers and sisters who are separated by borders. You have classmates, teachers, law enforcement officers, technologists, scientists, doctors, who are all scrambling to make sense of new realities when their social circles are broken. These are the real lives behind all these statistics that dominate discussions about immigration policy. But we don't often think about them. And I'm trying to change that.
当社交圈脆弱时 国家也就脆弱 在讨论移民政策时，我们错过了一个关键方面 不应该专注于个人 应该专注围绕他们的圈子 因为在他们圈子里的人包括： 投票者，纳税人， 这些人会很痛苦 不只是被驱除的孩子 被边境隔离的兄弟姐妹 受到影响 你的同学，老师，执法人员 技术员，科学家，医生 都需要重新接受新的事实 当他们的社交圈打破后 这些是统计背后的真实生活 主导讨论有关移民政策 我们常常忽略这些 现在我要试图改变这一切
Here's just one of the real-life stories that I've collected. And it still haunts me. I met Ramon and his son in 2016, the same year both of them were being ordered out of the country. Ramon was being deported to Latin America, while his son, who was a sergeant in the US military, was being deployed. Deported ... deployed. If you just look at Ramon's case, it wouldn't be clear how deeply connected to the country he is. But consider his son: a US citizen defending a country that's banished his father. The social circle is what's key here.
下面是我收集的真实生活中的一个例子 至今困扰我 2016年我遇到Ramon和他的儿子 同一年都被要求离境 Ramon被遣返回拉丁美洲 他的儿子，美国军队中的一名中士 正在被部署调配（海外） 一方是驱除离境...... 另一方是调离出境。 看看Ramon的案子 我们不知道他到底和这个国家有多深的联系 考虑一下他儿子： 一个保家卫国的士兵，他的父亲被驱除离境 社交圈的关键点在这里
Here's another example that illustrates those critical bonds. A group of citizens in Philadelphia were concerned about their jobs, because the legal owner of the restaurant where they worked was an undocumented immigrant, and immigration officials had picked him up. They rallied behind him. An immigration lawyer argued he was too important to the local community to be deported. At the hearing, they even submitted restaurant reviews -- restaurant reviews! In the end, a judge exercised what's called "judicial discretion" and allowed him to stay in the country, but only because they considered the social circle.
另外一个例子来说明链接的重要性 一群在费城的公民正在担忧他们的工作 因为他们工作的餐厅老板 是一个非法移民 移民局让他离境 他们团结在他身边 一名移民律师辩护说 他对当地社区太重要了 不应该被驱除 在听证会上，甚至提交了餐厅评价-- 餐厅评价--- 最后，法官行驶自由裁量权 容许他继续留在这个国家 仅仅考虑了社会联系
There are 23 million noncitizens in the USA, according to verifiable federal data. And that doesn't include the undocumented, because numbers for that population are at best complex estimates. Let's just work with what we have. That's 23 million social circles -- about 100 million individuals whose lives could be impacted by deportation. And the stress of it all is trickling down through the population. A 2017 poll by UCLA of LA County residents found that 30 percent of citizens in LA County are stressed about deportation, not because they themselves could be removed, but rather, because members of their social circle were at risk.
美国有2300万非公民 据可靠政府数据 这些没有包括非法移民 因为这些预计数据十分复杂 让我们仅用已有数据 2300万人的社交圈 大概有1000万个人 他们的生活受被驱逐者的影响 所有压力会向下传递 加州洛杉矶居民的2017年民意调查 发现30%的洛杉矶居民 感受到被驱除者的压力 不仅仅他们自己被驱除 而是因为圈子里面其他成员处于（被驱除）危险中
I am not suggesting that no one should ever be deported; don't confuse me with that. But what I am saying is that we need to look at the bigger picture. If you are within the sound of my voice, I want you to close your eyes for a moment and examine your own social circle. Who are your foreign-born? What would it feel like if the circle were broken?
我不是说任何人都不应该被驱除 不要误解我的意思 我想说，我们应该看得更远 如果你在聆听我的观点 请你闭眼 考虑自己的社交圈 谁是海外出生的？ 如果圈子被破坏了，你有什么感觉？
Share your story. I'm building a global archive of first-person accounts and linking them with mapping technology, so that we can see exactly where these circles break, because this is not just an American issue. There are a quarter-billion migrants around the world; people living, loving and learning in countries where they were not born. And in my career, in my life, I've been one of them: in China, in Africa, in Europe. And each time I become one of these foreigners -- one of these strange-looking guys in a new land -- I can't help but think back to that day when I was in Lower Manhattan with my mom all those decades ago, when I was scared, and I had just spotted that green lady. And I guess the question that I keep on thinking about when I see her and all the younger replicas of her that are so obviously brown, and even the paintings that showcase her in the beginning as not quite green -- when I look at all of that, the question that my research seeks to answer becomes, to me, the same one that confounded me all those years ago: Is she a monster or a hero?
分享你的故事 我正在建立一个全球第一手资料档案库 用制图技术链接在一起 能发现圈子在哪里断裂 这不仅仅存在于美国 全球有2.5亿移民 生活，爱，学习在非出生地 在我的职业生涯，我的生命中，我也是他们中的一员： 在中国，在非洲，在欧洲 每次我都是这些国家的外国人 在新大陆的陌生人 我不禁回想过去 当我和母亲住在下麦哈顿的一端 几十年前 我很恐惧 发现绿魔女 我一直在思考的问题 当我看见她 她的年轻时候的复制品明显是棕色 甚至在一开始设计的画像 不太绿 当我回顾这一切 我努力寻找答案 让我困惑多年的同一个问题 她是怪兽 还是英雄？
Thank you.
谢谢
(Applause)
（鼓掌）