Bryn Freedman: So you said that in the 20th century, global power was in the hands of government. At the beginning of this digital century, it really moved to corporations and that in the future, it would move to individuals. And I've interviewed a lot of people, and they say you're wrong, and they are betting on the companies. So why are you right, and why are individuals going to win out?
﻿布林 · 弗里德曼（BF）： 你是说，在20世纪 全球权力掌握在政府手中。 在这个数字世纪之初， 它转移到了公司中， 并且在未来，它会转移到个人手里。 我也采访了很多人， 他们说你错了， 他们把赌注压在了公司上面。 那么为什么你是对的， 为什么个人将会胜出？
Fadi Chehadé: Because companies cater to individuals, and we as the citizenry need to start understanding that we have a big role in shaping how the world will be governed, moving forward. Yes, indeed, the tug of war right now is between governments, who lost much of their power to companies because the internet is not built around the nation-state system around which governments have power. The internet is transnational. It's not international, and it's not national, and therefore the companies became very powerful. They shape our economy. They shape our society. Governments don't know what to do. Right now, they're reacting. And I fear that if we do not, as the citizenry -- which are, in my opinion, the most important leg of that stool -- don't take our role, then you are right. The detractors, or the people telling you that businesses will prevail, are right. It will happen.
法迪 · 切哈德（FC）： 因为公司是为个人服务的， 我们作为公民 需要开始认识到， 我们在塑造这个世界 如何被管理以及向前发展上， 发挥着重要作用。 是的，确实，当前的 博弈存在于政府之间， 这些政府被公司夺去了很多权力， 因为互联网不是 围绕着政府掌握权力的 民族-国家系统建立的。 互联网是跨国界的。 它不是国际性的，也不是全国性的， 这就让公司变得非常强大。 它们塑造了我们的经济。 它们塑造了我们的社会。 政府不知道如何应对这种局面。 目前他们正在想办法应对。 我担心如果我们没有， 作为一个公民—— 我认为公民是这个系统中 最重要的部分—— 不去扮演我们的角色的话， 那么你是对的。 那些诋毁者，或者那些告诉你 企业会占上风的人，是对的。 这的确会发生。
BF: So are you saying that individuals will force businesses or business will be forced to be responsive, or is there a fear that they won't be?
BF：所以你是说个人会迫使企业， 或企业会被迫做出反应， 还是担心它们不会？
FC: I think they will be. Look at two weeks ago, a small company called Skip winning over Uber and Lyft and everyone to actually get the license for the San Francisco scooter business. And if you read why did Skip win, because Skip listened to the people of San Francisco, who were tired of scooters being thrown everywhere, and actually went to the city and said, "We will deploy the service, but we will respond to the people's requirements that we organize ourselves around a set of rules." They self-governed their behavior, and they won the contract over some very powerful companies.
FC：我认为它们会的。 看看两周前， 一家叫Skip的小公司打败了 优步和Lyft及其他所有公司， 拿到了旧金山滑板车生意的牌照。 假如你读过为什么 Skip会赢的文章（就知道）， 因为Skip倾听旧金山居民的心声—— 市民们厌倦了随处可见的滑板车—— 并跟市民们说， “我们会部署这个服务， 但我们会按人们的要求去做， 根据一套规则来组织运营。” 他们对公司的行为进行自我管理， 从一些行业巨头手中 赢得了合同。
BF: So speaking of guidelines and self-governance, you've spent an entire lifetime creating guidelines and norms for the internet. Do you think those days are over? Who is going to guide, who is going to control, and who is going to create those norms?
BF：那么谈到指导和自我管理， 你一生都致力于为互联网制定 指导方针和规范。 你认为这些日子结束了吗？ 谁来指导，谁来调控， 谁来制定这些规范呢？
FC: The rules that govern the technology layers of the internet are now well put in place, and I was very busy for a few years setting those rules around the part of the internet that makes the internet one network. The domain-name system, the IP numbers, all of that is in place. However, as we get now into the upper layers of the internet, the issues that affect me and you every day -- privacy, security, etc. -- the system to create norms for those unfortunately is not in place. So we do have an issue. We have a system of cooperation and governance that really needs to be created right now so that companies, governments and the citizenry can agree how this new digital world is going to advance.
FC：管理互联网技术层面的规则 现在已经到位， 我忙了好些年去制定 让互联网成为一个网络的这部分规则。  域名系统，IP地址， 所有这些都到位了。 然而，随着我们现在 进入互联网上层应用， 那些每天影响你我的—— 隐私，安全，等等—— 不幸的是，为这一切制定 规范的体系并没到位。 所以我们确实面临着一些问题。 我们现在切实地需要建立 一个合作和治理的体系， 这样一来，公司，政府和公民就能够 在这个新的数字世界 将如何发展上达成共识。
BF: So what gives a digital company any incentive? Let's say -- Facebook comes to mind -- they would say they have their users' best interests at heart, but I think a lot of people would disagree with that.
BF：那么是什么激励了数字公司呢？ 比如说——我想到了Facebook—— 他们说会牢记用户的最佳利益， 但我觉得很多人并不认同这点。
FC: It's been very difficult to watch how tech companies have reacted to the citizenry's response to their technologies. And some of them, two or three years ago, basically dismissed it. The word that I heard in many board rooms is, "We're just a technology platform. It's not my issue if my technology platform causes families to go kill their girls in Pakistan. It's not my issue. It's their problem. I just have a technology platform." Now, I think we are now entering a stage where companies are starting to realize this is no longer sustainable, and they're starting to see the pushback that's coming from people, users, citizens, but also governments that are starting to say, "This cannot be."
FC：科技公司如何回应公民 对它们的技术所做出的反应， 对这一过程的观察 一直以来都是个难题。 在两三年前，一些公司的 做法基本上就是无视它。 我在很多会议室听到的词是： “我们只是个科技公司。 如果我的科技平台导致 巴基斯坦的家人杀害他们的女儿， 这并不是我的问题。 这不是我的问题，是他们的问题。 我只是个科技平台。” 现在，我认为我们正进入这样一个阶段， 公司开始意识到 这种做法并不是长久之计， 他们开始看到来自大众， 用户，公民的阻力， 但也有政府开始表态， “不能这样。”
So I think there is a maturity that is starting to set, especially in that Silicon Valley area, where people are beginning to say, "We have a role." So when I speak to these leaders, I say, "Look, you could be the CEO, a very successful CEO of a company, but you could also be a steward." And that's the key word. "You could be a steward of the power you have to shape the lives and the economies of billions of people. Which one do you want to be?" And the answer is, it's not one or the other. This is what we are missing right now. So when an adult like Brad Smith, the president of Microsoft, said a few months ago, "We need a new set of Geneva Conventions to manage the security of the digital space," many of the senior leaders in Silicon Valley actually spoke against his words. "What do you mean, Geneva Convention? We don't need any Geneva Conventions. We self-regulate." But that mood is changing, and I'm starting to see many leaders say, "Help us out." But here lies the conundrum. Who is going to help those leaders do the right thing?
所以我认为开始去 制定规则的时机成熟了， 尤其在硅谷地区， 人们已经开始说，“我们有责任。” 所以当我跟这些领导者们 交谈时，我会说， “看，你可以成为CEO， 一个公司非常成功的CEO， 但你也可以成为一个管理者。” 这是个关键词。 “你可以成为权力的管理者， 可以去塑造数十亿人的 生活和经济面貌。 你想成为哪一个？ 然而答案并不是非此即彼。 这是我们现在所缺失的。 所以当像布拉德 · 史密斯 那样的成年人，微软总裁， 几个月前说， “我们需要一套新的日内瓦公约 来管理数字空间的安全，” 很多硅谷的高管 其实是持相反意见的。 “你什么意思，日内瓦公约？ 我们不需要任何日内瓦公约， 我们可以很好地进行自我管理。” 但那种情绪正在改变。 我开始看到很多的领导者说， “帮助我们。” 但难题恰恰就在这里。 谁来帮助这些领导者做正确的事情？
BF: So who is going to help them? Because I'd love to interview you for an hour, but give me your biggest fear and your best hope for how this is going to work out.
BF：那么谁将去帮助他们呢？ 我很希望能有一个小时的采访时间， 不过长话短说吧——请告诉我， 你对如何解决这个问题的 最大的担忧和最大的希望是什么。
FC: My biggest hope is that we will become each stewards of this new digital world. That's my biggest hope, because I do think, often, we want to put the blame on others. "Oh, it's these CEOs. They're behaving this way." "These governments are not doing enough." But how about us? How is each of us actually taking the responsibility to be a steward of the digital space we live in? And one of the things I've been pushing on university presidents is we need every engineering and science and computer science student who is about to write the next line of code or design the next IoT device to actually have in them a sense of responsibility and stewardship towards what they're building. So I suggested we create a new oath, like the Hippocratic Oath, so that every student entering an engineering program takes a technocratic oath or a wisdom oath or some oath of commitment to the rest of us. That's my best hope, that we all rise. Because governments and businesses will fight over this power game, but where are we? And unless we play into that power table, I think we'll end up in a bad place.
FC：我最大的希望是， 我们都会成为这个新的 数字世界的管理员。 那是我最大的希望， 因为我确实认为， 我们往往习惯于指责别人。 “哦，就是因为这些 CEO们的这般作为。” “这些政府做得还不够。” 但是我们自己呢？ 我们每个人实际上又承担了多少管理 我们所生活的数字空间的责任呢？ 我一直在敦促大学校长们 做的一件事是，我们需要 让每一个将要写下一行代码， 或者设计下一个物联网 设备的工程科学 和计算机科学领域的学生 切实地拥有责任感，并有意识地管理 他们所构建东西。 所以我建议，我们应该 立下一个新的誓言， 就像希波克拉底誓言一样， 这样每个进入工程专业的学生 需要承诺一个技术官僚的誓言， 或者一个智慧的誓言， 或者对我们其他人做出承诺的誓言。 这就是我最大的希望—— 我们都能站出来。 因为政府和企业会为 这场权力游戏而战， 但我们在哪儿呢？ 除非我们参与其中， 否则我认为我们会陷入困境。
My biggest fear? My biggest fear, to be very tactical today, what is keeping me up at night is the current war between the West, the liberal world, and China, in the area of artificial intelligence. There is a real war going on, and for those of us who have lived through the nuclear nonproliferation age and saw how people agreed to take some very dangerous things off the table, well, the Carnegie Endowment just finished a study. They talked to every country that made nuclear weapons and asked them, "Which digital 'weapon' would you take off the table against somebody else's schools or hospitals?" And the answer -- from every nuclear power -- to this question was, nothing. That's what I'm worried about ... The weaponization of the digital space, and the race to get there.
说到我最大的担忧， 我最大的担忧，今天用 非常战术性的话来说， 让我夜不能寐的是 当前在人工智能领域，发生在西方， 自由世界和中国 之间的战争。 一场真正的战争在进行， 对于我们这些经历过核不扩散时代 和看到人们如何同意避免 一些非常危险的东西的人来说， 卡内基基金会刚刚完成了一项研究。 他们跟每个制造核武器的国家交谈， 询问他们， “在对付别人的学校和医院时， 你会避免使用哪个数字‘武器’？” 而答案—— 来自每个核国家的答案是—— 没有。（即什么都可以用） 这就是我所担心的… 数字空间的武器化， 和以此为目标的军备竞赛。
BF: Well, it sounds like you've got a lot of work to do, and so do the rest of us. Fadi, thank you so much. I really appreciate it.
BF：听起来你有很多工作要做， 我们其他所有人也是。 法迪，非常感谢， 感谢你的精彩回答。
FC: Thank you.
FC：谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）