Well, I have known many alpha males in my life, chimpanzee alpha males, and I'm going to talk about what an alpha male is, because I think we can all learn a lot from our close relatives where we have alpha males.
﻿我这一生见识过很多雄性头领， 黑猩猩当中的雄性头领， 我将会谈何为雄性领袖， 因为我觉得可以从我们的近亲那学到很多， 我们也有雄性领袖。
And as an example, I want to give you Amos, a male that I knew who was a young male and he was alpha male, he was very popular, but he got sick and he lost his position because, you know, chimpanzee males they can spot from a mile away if you are weak and they went for him, and he lost his position, and then he got sicker and sicker until at some point we had to isolate him. The group lived on a grassy island, and we had to isolate him in a cage, but we cracked open the cage so that the rest of the chimps still had access to him. And what happened was most touching. Other chimps would bring food to him, they would bring wood wool to him, which is this thing that they use to sleep in and build nests out of, and females would put the wood wool behind his back. He was leaning heavily against the wall, and the way we do with pillows to patients in a hospital, they were putting that stuff behind his back. And I thought, this is the way to go for an alpha male. He was loved and respected, and everyone was taking care of him, and this is not always how it goes, because some males don't answer well when they lose their position.
给你们举个例子，我认识一只叫阿莫的雄性黑猩猩， 他是一个年轻的雄性头领， 他非常受欢迎， 但后来他病了 并失去了他的地位。 如果你变虚弱了，其他雄性黑猩猩一眼就可以看出来。 于是，阿莫遭到群体的质疑， 因此失去了地位，并病得越来越重。 直到最后，我们不得不把他隔离起来。 这群黑猩猩生活在一个长满草的岛上， 我们不得不用笼子把他隔离起来， 但是我们把笼子开了一个口， 所以其他的黑猩猩可以来探望他。 接下来发生的事情十分感人。 其他黑猩猩会带食物给阿莫， 还会带木屑给他， 木屑是他们睡觉时做垫子和造窝用的材料， 雌性黑猩猩会把木屑垫在阿莫的背后， 阿莫紧紧地靠着墙， 就像在医院里，我们把枕头垫在病人背后一样， 他们也用同样的方式把木屑垫在阿莫的背上。 我开始觉得这就是拥护雄性领袖的方式。 他受到大家的爱戴与尊敬并且得到照料， 但并不是所有的雄性领袖都有这样的待遇， 因为有些雄性领袖失去地位的时，他们下场可不好。
So Amos was an example of a male who was liked as a leader, and I think the term alpha male, if you look it up on the internet, you will find all these business books that tell you how to be an alpha male, and what they mean is how to beat up others and beat them over the head and let them know that you are boss and don't mess with me and so on. And basically an alpha male for them is a bully. And I really don't like that kind of description, because I am actually partly responsible for the term "alpha male" because I wrote this book "Chimpanzee Politics," which was recommended by Newt Gingrich to freshmen congressmen. I don't know what good it did, but he recommended that book to them, and after that the term "alpha male" became very popular. But I think it is used in a mischaracterization. It's used in a very superficial way that doesn't relate to what a real alpha male is. And so I'm here to explain what that is. The term itself goes back actually much further. It goes back to the '40s and '50s, research on wolves, and basically the definition is very simple. The highest ranking male is the alpha male. The highest ranking female is the alpha female. Every primate group has one alpha male, one alpha female, not more than that, there's only one. And I will explain how that goes.
所以，阿莫是一个受人爱戴的雄性领袖的例子， 如果你上网查“雄性领袖”这个词， 你会发现一堆教你如何成为一个雄性领袖的商业书籍， 但这些书籍所教的内容不过是如何打败他人， 狠狠地打他的头，让他们知道你才是老大， 以及不要惹我之类。 也就是雄性领袖基本与流氓无异。 我并不是很喜欢这种描述， 因为实际上，“雄性领袖”这个词与我有些许关系， 因为我写了《黑猩猩政治》这本书， 纽特·金里奇将这本书推荐给新上任的国会议员。 我不知道这本书起到什么积极作用， 但他将这本书推荐给他们， 后来，“雄性领袖”这个词变得流行起来。 但是我觉得人们对这个词的使用并不恰当。 关于这个词的描述十分肤浅 与真正的雄性领袖没一点关系。 所以我想在这解释一下“雄性领袖”的真正含义。 这个词可以追溯到很久以前。 可追溯到40年代和50年代时关于狼的研究， 那时，“雄性领袖”的定义十分简单。 在群体里级别最高的那个雄性就是雄性领袖。 在群体里级别最高的那个雌性就是雌性领袖。 每个灵长类动物群体都有一个雄性领袖和雌性领袖。 不会超过这个数，只会有一个领袖。 我会解释一下会是什么样子。
So first, the body language. What you see here is two male chimpanzees who are the same size, but one is walking upright, has his hair up, has a big rock in his hand, and he's the alpha male. The other male is pant-grunting to him, is being submissive to him and bowing for him, and that is the sort of ritual they need to go through many times a day in order to have a stable relationship. I'll show you a video from the field. What you will see here is a female pant-grunting to an alpha male and you will see how that goes. The male is approaching, she grunts at him.
首先可以观察他们的肢体语言。 你现在看到的是两只同等体型的雄性黑猩猩， 但一只直立行走，毛发竖起， 手上握着石头，它就是雄性领袖。 另外那只发出喘息咕哝声的雄性黑猩猩， 则是他的下属，正对他鞠躬。 这是他们每天都要进行好几次的仪式， 目的是创建一种稳定的关系。 我给大家展示一个野外拍摄的视频。 你会看到一只雌性黑猩猩向 她的雄性领袖发出喘息的咕哝声。 你可以看看是怎样一个情形。 雄性黑猩猩正在靠近， 她向他发出咕哝声。
(Chimpanzee grunts)
（黑猩猩发出咕哝声）
He has all his hair up and he displays.
他全部毛发竖起 展示他的威力。
I'm actually standing far too close. A chimpanzee is far stronger than I am, and I just was not very prudent, this particular video.
我实际上站得太近。 黑猩猩比我强壮许多， 在这个视频当中，我不是非常谨慎 。
So what you saw him do is he was lifting himself up and standing on two legs, and putting his arms out. That's called the bipedal swagger. It's a very common posture in high-ranking males, and it's very recognizable because humans do this kind of stuff.
所以你们可以看到 它双腿直立， 举起双臂， 这是两足动物虚张声势的方式。 在高级别的雄性中，这是非常常见的姿势， 这样的姿势很容易辨别，因为人类 也有类似的行为。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Humans do this all the time. And what I really like about this particular picture is the two old guys to the side. This is very chimpanzee. In chimpanzees, we have usually old males who are over the hill, who cannot be alpha male themselves anymore, but they start playing games and forming coalitions, and behind the backs of others. And they become extremely influential, and you may actually have old males who are more influential than the alpha male himself.
人类总是这么做。 我特别喜欢这张照片中 站在边上的两位年长男性。 这是非常典型的黑猩猩的行为。 在黑猩猩当中， 通常有年老气衰的雄性黑猩猩， 他们无法再成为雄性领袖了， 但他们开始搞事情并拉帮结派， 站在背后。 他们逐渐变得非常有势力， 你就会看到有老年雄性黑猩猩 实际上可能比雄性领袖更有影响力。
Just as an example, the three males that I used to work with most at the Dutch zoo long ago, where I worked, and the middle male here is a 17-year-old alpha male. The male who is grooming on the side is twice as old, and this old male has made him the leader. So you can imagine that that old male has an enormous amount of power, because he has made the alpha male alpha male. The male on the right is individually the strongest male. In captivity, you can test it out, and you can know that this male has no trouble with either one. He has only trouble with the combination of the two. And so the coalition formation that goes on in chimpanzee society makes it much more complex than you think. It means, for example, that the smallest male in a group can be the alpha male. You don't need to be the biggest and strongest male. The smallest male, if he has the right friends and keeps them happy, or he has female support, he can be the alpha male.
举个例子， 这三只雄性黑猩猩， 是我过去工作中最常接触到的， 在我过去工作的荷兰动物园里。
So the coalition system makes everything complex, and I'm always waiting here in the US for the primaries, the end of the primaries, because that's a moment where you need to demonstrate unity. Now let me first show you how the unity is shown in chimpanzees. What you see here is two males on the left who are standing together. You also see the big canine teeth that they have. And they're standing together and they demonstrate to the rest of the group, "We are together. We are a unit." The males on the right are walking together in synchrony. That's another way of demonstrating that you are together. And so demonstrating unity is extremely important in a coalition system, and as I said, in the primaries always I'm waiting for that moment because then you have two members of the same party who have been fighting with each other, and they need to come together at some moment. And it leads to very awkward situations. People who don't like each other need to embrace each other and stand together, and that's absolutely essential for the unity of the party, and if you don't do that, the party may fall apart. And so if it doesn't go well, like in this particular case --
中间这只，是一只17岁的雄性领袖。 旁边这只正在梳理毛发的雄性年纪是它两倍， 而正是这只年老雄性黑猩猩使它成为领袖。 你可以想象那只年老的雄性黑猩猩 有多大的力量， 因为他使得那只雄性领袖成为领袖。 最右边的这只雄性黑猩猩， 是他们当中最强壮的雄性。 被孤立了，你可以看出来。 你可以看出来这只雄性一对一毫无问题， 它的唯一麻烦是另外两只联合起来。 所以拉帮结派的行为在黑猩猩群体中很常见。 情况远比你想象的复杂。 意思是，比如， 群体中体形最小的也可以成为雄性领袖。 身强体壮并不是成为雄性领袖的必要条件。 最小的雄性，如果它交对了朋友， 并且能让它们开心，
(Laughter)
或者得到雌性的支持， 它就可以成为雄性领袖。 因此，联盟使一切都变复杂了， 我一直在等待 初选在美国的终结。 因为这是我们需要展示团结的时刻。 首先我展示下黑猩猩是如何展现团结。 你看到左边这两只雄性黑猩猩 站在一起。 你还可以看到他们的大犬齿。 他俩站在一起并向其他的成员展示 “我们在一起，我们是个团体。” 右边的雄性黑猩猩正同步行走。 这里另一种展示团结的方式。 这展现了在联盟系统里 团结一致是十分重要的。 我总是期待在初选中看到这样的场景， 同一党派的两个成员 需要相互竞争， 但在有些时候，却需要一起出台。 这场景就很尴尬。 互不喜欢的人需要彼此拥抱 站在一起， 这对于政党的团结一致是极为重要的， 如果不这样做，党派就会分裂。
then the party is in deep doo-doo because they have not demonstrated unity. So that's a very important part of the coalition system, and that's something that we share between humans and chimpanzees.
如果处理不好，就像这样——
Now, how do you become an alpha male? First of all, you need to be impressive and intimidating and demonstrate your vigor on occasion and show that you are very strong, and there's all sorts of ways of doing that. But other things that you need to do is you need to be generous. So, for example, males who go on a campaign to dethrone the leader, which may take two or three months where they're testing all the coalitions in the group, they also become extremely generous. They share food very easily with everyone. Or they start to tickle the babies of the females. They're normally, male chimpanzees, not particularly interested in infants, but when they are campaigning like that, they get very interested in infants and they tickle them, and they try to curry favor with the females.
（笑声） 这个党派就麻烦了， 因为他们不团结。 所以，团结是联盟系统当中非常重要的一部分
(Laughter)
这是人类和黑猩猩的共同点 那么，如何成为一个雄性领袖呢？ 首先，你必须让人印象深刻，显得强势， 不时展现你的活力， 并展现出你非常强壮， 有很多方式可以展现你的强劲有力的一面。 但是你还必须有宽宏大量。 比如，其他雄性黑猩猩 要把雄性首领赶下台的话， 这通常需要花两到三个月时间。 当它们在群体中当中寻找联盟时， 它们也会变得慷慨大方起来。 它们能非常轻松地与其他成员分享食物， 或者开始逗雌性成员的小宝宝。 通常来说，雄性黑猩猩对婴儿不感兴趣， 但是当它们进行类似宣传行动时候， 它们就会对婴儿非常感兴趣并逗他们玩，
So in humans, of course, I am always intrigued by these men who are candidates and hold babies up like this. This is not particularly something that babies like --
它们想借此增进与雌性成员间的关系
(Laughter)
（笑声） 在人类中，也是非常显然， 我总是被这些候选人 那样把宝宝抱起来吸引。
but since it is a signal to the rest of the world, they need to hold them in the air. And I was really intrigued by, when we had a female candidate in the last election, the way she held babies was more like this, which is what babies really like. But she of course didn't need to send the message that she could hold a baby without dropping it, which was what the man was doing.
小宝宝一般并不喜欢这样的方式。
So this is a very common tactic, and male chimpanzees, they spend a lot of time currying favor with all sorts of parties when they are campaigning.
（笑声） 但这是一个给全世界的信号， 他们得把小宝宝举过头顶。 但尤为吸引我的是 在上一届竞选中，我们的女性候选人， 她抱小宝宝的方式更像是这样， 这种才是小宝宝喜欢的方式。 当然，她不需要向世界传达信息， 也就是，小宝宝在她手里是安全的。
Now, what are the privileges and the costs of being an alpha male? The biggest privilege is females. Food is really irrelevant. Male chimpanzees can go a week without food if there's a female in estrus and they're sexually interested in her. Food is secondary to sex. And so the male chimpanzees -- and we evolutionary biologists, of course, we have an explanation for this, is that sex leads to reproduction, and reproductive success is the measure of evolution. That's how everything evolves. And so if males can enhance their reproductive success by being high ranking, you get automatically the ambition to be high ranking in the males. So that's the privilege. The costs, one cost is of course that you need to keep your partners happy. So if you come to power with the support of an old male, you need to let that old male mate with females. If you don't do that, that old male is going to get mad at you, and you're going to lose him as a partner. So there's a transaction going on. If you become alpha male this way, you need to keep your partners happy. And so that's one of the costs.
然而男性却需要这么做来传达信息。 所以这是十分常见的策略。 雄性黑猩猩， 他们花很多时间增进与各个群体之间的关系。
The second cost is that everyone wants your position. Alpha male position is a very important position, and everyone wants to take it from you, and so you constantly have to watch your back. You have to be extremely vigilant. For example, you have to disrupt the coalitions of others and that's what male chimpanzees do quite a bit. Divide and rule strategies, they have. And so that's a very stressful situation, and we actually have data on this. The data comes from the field, from baboons not chimpanzees in this case, where they did fecal samples on the baboons and they analyzed them for glucocorticoids. And what you see here is a graph where you see that the lower ranking the male baboon is, the higher is his cortisol level in the feces, but the alpha male, as you see, has just as high a level as the lowest-ranking males, and so you may think that being alpha male is nice and dandy and is wonderful, but it's actually a very stressful position, and we can demonstrate that physiologically.
当他们在宣传造势的时候。 现在，我们来看看作为一个雄性领袖的 特权与代价。 最大的利益在于获得雌性， 食物倒不太相关。 雄性黑猩猩就算一个星期没进食也可存活。 如果有正处在发情期的雌性黑猩猩， 并且他这对只雌性黑猩猩有“性趣”，  食物是次要的。 所以，雄性大猩猩以及 我们进化学生物学家，对此有所解释， 性与繁衍息息相关 有繁衍才有进化。 世间一切都是这么发展的。 如果在群体中，级别高 能增加它们繁衍成功的机率。 那么，这自然就成为努力成为 雄性领袖的动力。 这就是我们所说的特权。 那么雄性领袖的代价之一，当然就是 你需要让你的伙伴保持开心。 如果你借助一位长老的帮助成为领袖， 你需要给予那位长老与雌性交配的特权 如果你不那么做，长老会大发雷霆。 并且你会失去他这位伙伴。 所以这是一笔交易。 如果你是通过这种方式获得地位 你需要让你的伙伴开心。
Now, what are the obligations? And here, for me, it gets really interesting, and it deviates very much from your typical image of the alpha male. The alpha male has two sorts of obligations. One is to keep the peace in the group. We call that the control role, to control fights in the group, and the second is to be the most empathic, the consoler in chief, basically, of the nation, so to speak.
所以这就是代价之一。 第二个代价就是，每个人都垂涎你的地位。 雄性领袖是一个非常重要的地位， 每个人都想从你那里夺取这个地位， 所以你要一直保持警惕。 你要非常地谨慎小心。 比如，你必须要阻止帮派的形成。 雄性黑猩猩经常拉帮结派。 它们的策略是，分而治之。 所以这是个非常有压力的情景。 我们实际上有数据来证明。 数据来自野外考察， 这次考察对象是狒狒而不是黑猩猩， 他们检验了狒狒的粪便样本 检验其中的糖皮质激素。 在这幅曲线图上 你可以看到，狒狒的级别越低， 粪便中的皮质醇的水平就越高， 但正如你所见， 雄性领袖的粪便中， 皮质醇水平和低级别的狒狒一样高， 你可能认为作为雄性领袖一定风光无限， 但实际上这是一个压力很大的角色，
So first of all, keeping the peace. This is a male who stops a fight between two females. Two females on the left and the right have been screaming and yelling at each other over food, because food is very important for the females, and so he stops the fight between them and stands between them like this. And it's very interesting to me that alpha males, when they do this, they become impartial. They don't support their mom or their best buddy. No, no, they stop fights, and they come up for the underdog in general. And this makes them extremely popular in the group, because they provide security for the lowest-ranking members of the group. And so they become impartial, which is an unusual condition for a chimpanzee to be in, because they're usually very fond of their friends and so on, and these alpha males who are good at this, they can be very effective at keeping the peace in the group.
这可以从生理学数据显示。 那么，什么是雄性领袖的义务呢？ 这对于我来说十分有趣， 这和你想象中雄性领袖的义务很不一样。 雄性领袖有两种义务 其一，保障群体内部和平。 我们可以称其为控制角色 控制群体内部斗争， 其二，表现出同理心，
And the second thing they do is they show empathy for others. Now, I do an enormous amount of research on empathy, and I don't have time to go into it, but empathy is nowadays a topic that we study in rodents and dogs and elephants and primates, all sorts of animals. And what you see here is two bonobos. The one in front has been beaten up in a fight. The one in the back puts her arms around her and consoles her. This is also actually how we measure empathy in young children, by looking at how they respond to distressed individuals. And high-ranking males, they do a lot of this. High-ranking males provide an enormous amount of comfort in the group, and they go to places where there are earthquakes or hurricanes and they provide comfort. The pope does this. The presidents do this. All the leaders in the world have to do this job. The queen does it and so on. They all have to do this job, so providing consolation, and that's a very important task. And males who are good at these two, keeping the peace and providing comfort, they become extremely popular leaders, and there's actually some self-interest involved in it. They don't do it just for the group, because it also stabilizes their position. The more popular a male becomes as alpha male and the more the rest of them respects them and looks up to them, the better their position is defended in case it's going to be challenged by somebody else, because then, of course, the whole group is going to support that male because they want to keep a leader who is good for them. So the group is usually very supportive of males who are good leaders, and it's not supportive at all of bullies. And when bullies lose their position, they may end up in a very bad situation there.
也就是扮演群体里那个安慰群众的角色。 首先，保持群体内部和平。 这是一只雄性阻止两只雌性的争斗的画面。 分别在左边和右边的两只雌性 由于食物产生了争执， 因为食物对于雌性来说非常重要， 所以他像这样站在她们中间劝架。 这对我来说非常有趣， 当雄性领袖这么做的时候， 他们变得公正。 他们并不会偏袒他们的母亲或者最好的朋友。 他们不会这么做而是去阻止争斗， 并且为斗争中的弱势一方挺身而出。 这使他们在群体受到欢迎， 因为他们为大家带来安全感， 特别是为弱势群体。 他们变得公正， 这对于黑猩猩来说可不常见， 因为他们通常十分善待他们的朋友， 这些雄性领袖很擅长做和解的一方，
This is data actually on the consolation behavior. This is data on consolation in chimpanzees, and you see for the medium- and low-ranking individuals, the females do more of it than the males. This is basically the whole community. And this is true for all the mammal studies on empathy is that females have more of it than males. But look at the alpha male. The alpha male does far more than anybody else. And so that's the data on alpha males being the consoler in chief, basically.
而这能有效保持群体内部和平。 他们做的第二件事，就是对其他组员表示同理心。 我做了很多有关同理心的研究， 但是我没有时间透露其中细节， 同情心是我们在啮齿动物和狗， 以及大象和灵长类， 等各种动物中研究的课题。 你在这里看到的是两只矮黑猩猩， 前面这只 在之前的一场搏斗中惨败。 后面这只搂着她，安慰她。 这也是我们用于评测儿童同情心的方式， 通过观察他们如何对处于痛苦的人做出反应。 高级别的男性会做很多这样的事情， 群体中级别高的男性做出许多 表示同理心的行为， 他们出现在地震或飓风发生的地方 他们为群体带来慰藉。 教皇如此，总统亦然。 世界上所有的领袖都要做这种工作。 女王等等也如此。 他们都需要这样做。 慰问群众是一项非常重要的任务。 非常擅长于这两件事情的男性， 维持和平，提供宽慰， 他们就会成非常受欢迎的领导者。 所以这往往有私心在里面。 他们做这并不只为了群体， 因为这也有助于维持他的地位。 一个雄性首领越来越受欢迎， 其他成员就会更尊敬景仰他， 这样雄性领袖的地位就越牢固了， 以防它会受到别人的挑战 因为当然，所有的群体都会支持这个人， 因为他们想要维护对他们有益的领袖。 所以群众通常都比较拥护好领袖， 完全不支持霸凌的领袖。 一旦这些霸凌者失去地位， 他们的下场可能很惨。
The last thing I want to say is something about alpha females. This is a picture of Mama, the alpha female in the Arnhem zoo where I used to work, who is now all over the internet, I think a hundred million clicks at the moment, for a video of her dying at the age of 59, which happened last year. And Mama was an absolute centrum of the group. So she was not physically capable of dominating the males. She ranked below the males, but she was the center of the community, and if there was big trouble in the community, everyone would end up in the arms of Mama. And so she was a very important figure. And so I don't want to minimize the position of alpha females in the chimpanzee group.
这是关于慰问行为的数据。 这是关于黑猩猩如何安慰同伙的数据， 你看在中下等级的黑猩猩中， 雌性做的比雄性多。 基本上是整个社群都是这样。 在哺乳动物的同情心研究中 也显示雌性比雄性有更多的同情心。 但是看看这位雄性领袖。 雄性领袖做的比任何人都多。 这基本上就是雄性领袖作为 首席安慰者的数据。
And then we have a species that is equally close to us as the chimpanzee, the bonobo. We often forget about the bonobo, but the bonobos have a matriarchal society and the alpha individual is a female, generally. Generally, it's a female who is at the top of the community, and we know much less about how this is done and how they get to that position, and what they do with it, because we know much less about bonobos in general. But I do want to emphasize that the alpha in a group doesn't need to be a male, and that actually in one of our close relatives, it is a female.
最后我想提一些雌性领袖的事。 这是Mama的照片，她是 阿亨姆动物园里的雌性领袖， 我过去在这个动物园工作过， Mama现在在网络上非常红， 我想现在关于她的一个视频 可能有上亿的点击量。 这是一个她在59岁去世的视频， 她是在去年过世的。 Mama绝对是团体中的中流砥柱。 虽然她并不能凭借强大的体力统领雄性， 她的地位也比雄性低，但是她是社群的中心。 如果社群里出什么事， 所有人最终都得找Mama解决。 她是一个非常重要的人物。 所以我不想贬低雌性领袖 在黑猩猩群体中地位。
So the message I want to leave you with is that if you are looking at men in our society who are the boss of, let's say, a family or a business or Washington or whatever, you call them alpha male, you should not insult chimpanzees by using the wrong label.
还有一个种群，就像黑猩猩一样和我们很相近 那就是矮黑猩猩。 我们经常忘记矮黑猩猩， 他们过母系社会的生活。 通常来说，首领是雌性。 雌性是社群的首领， 然而我们并不知道雌性是如何成为首领的 以及她们如何获得地位并用之何处， 因为我们对矮黑猩猩大体上所知甚少， 但是我想强调的是 一个群体的领袖并不一定是雄性， 并且在我们的近亲中，有个种群的 领袖就是雌性。
(Laughter)
我想传达的信息是 我们现今社会中的男性 不论是家庭或公司中的领头人  或是美国总统华盛顿， 你可以称他们为雄性领袖， 但是你不可以用错误的标签 侮辱黑猩猩。 （笑声）
You should not call a bully an alpha male. Someone who is big and strong and intimidates and insults everyone is not necessarily an alpha male. An alpha male has all sorts of qualities, and I have seen bully alpha males in chimpanzees, they do occur, but most of the ones that we have have leadership capacities and are integrated in their community, and, like Amos at the end, they are loved and respected, and so it's a very different situation than you may think.
你不应该称一个霸凌者为雄性领袖
And I thank you.
一个强壮，喜欢恐吓并侮辱他人的人， 这样的人不能被称之为雄性首领。 一个雄性领袖有各种各样的品质。 当然，黑猩猩中存在霸凌式雄性头领， 他们的确存在， 但是我们大部分雄性领袖 有领导力， 与群体融合在一起 最终，它们就像阿莫那样 受到爱戴与尊敬， 所以真正的雄性领袖可能 和你们想象得不一样。
(Applause)
谢谢！