I come from Egypt, which is also called Umm al-Dunya, the Mother of the World. It's a rich country filled with stories of rebellion, stories of civilizational triumph and downfall and the rich, religious, ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity.
﻿我来自埃及， 这里也被称作Umm al-Dunya， 意思是世界之母。 这一富饶的国家 充斥着反抗的故事， 见证着文明的兴衰， 还有着丰富的宗教、 民族、文化以及语言多样性。
Growing up in such an environment, I became a strong believer in the power of storytelling. As I searched for the medium with which to tell my story, I stumbled upon graphic design. I would like to share with you a project of how graphic design can bring the Arabic language to life. But first, let me tell you why I want to do this.
生长在这种环境中， 我变得十分相信讲述故事的力量。 当我为自己找寻讲述故事的媒介之时， 偶然发现了平面设计。 我想和你们分享一个项目， 即如何运用平面设计 赋予阿拉伯语生命。 但首先，我想谈谈 为什么我要做这件事。
I believe that graphic design can change the world. At least in my very own city of Cairo, it helped overthrow two separate dictators. As you can see from those photos, the power and potential of graphic design as a tool for positive change is undeniably strong. Egypt's 2011 revolution was also a grassroots design revolution. Everyone became a creator. People were the real designers and, just overnight, Cairo was flooded with posters, signage, graffiti. Visual communication was the medium that spoke far louder than words when the population of over 90 million voices were suppressed for almost 30 years.
我相信平面设计可以改变世界。 至少在我的城市开罗， 它帮助推翻了两任独裁者。 你可以从这些图片中看到， 作为正面变革的力量和潜力， 平面设计的作用是巨大的， 这一点毋庸置疑。 2011年的埃及革命也是 草根设计的革命。 每个人都变成了创造者。 人们是真正的设计师， 一夜之间， 整个开罗就遍布了海报， 标牌，涂鸦。 视觉交流 成为了比言语还要振聋发聩的媒介， 那时，超过九千万的民众 已经被压抑了近三十年。
It was precisely this political and social suppression, coupled with decades of colonialism and miseducation that slowly eroded the significance of the Arabic script in the region. All of these countries once used Arabic. Now it's just the green and the blue. To put it simply, the Arabic script is dying. In postcolonial Arab countries functioning in an increasingly globalized world, it is a growing alarm that less and less people are using the Arabic script to communicate.
正是这种政治和社会压迫， 以及几十年的殖民历史 和错误教育， 慢慢削弱了阿拉伯语 在这一地区的重要性。 所有这些标注了颜色的 国家都曾使用阿拉伯语。 现在只剩下绿色和蓝色的国家。 简单来说， 阿拉伯语正在消亡。 日益全球化的大背景， 为后殖民时期的阿拉伯国家 敲响了警钟， 使用阿拉伯语进行交流的 人数正在日益减少。
As I was studying my master's in Italy, I noticed myself missing Arabic. I missed looking at the letters, digesting their meaning. So one day, I walked into one of the biggest libraries in Italy in search of an Arabic book. I was surprised to find that this is what they had under the category of "Arabic/Middle Eastern books."
在米兰读硕士的时候， 我发现我开始怀念阿拉伯语。 我怀念看着那些字母， 揣摩它们的含义。 于是有一天，我走进了意大利 最大的一座图书馆， 找寻阿拉伯语书籍。 我惊讶的发现，这是他们在 “阿拉伯/中东书籍”分类下的藏书。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Fear, terrorism and destruction. One word: ISIS. My heart ached that this is how we are portrayed to the world, even from a literary perspective. I asked myself: Whatever happened to the world-renowned writers like Naguib Mahfouz, Khalil Gibran, iconic poets like Mutanabbi, Nizar Qabbani? Think about this. The cultural products of an entire region of the world, as rich, as diverse, have been deemed redundant, if not ignored altogether. The cultural products of an entire region of the world have been barred from imparting any kind of real impact on global media productions and contemporary social discourse. And then I reminded myself of my number one belief: design can change the world. All you need is for someone to catch a glimpse of your work, feel, connect.
恐惧、恐怖主义，以及破坏。 一个词：ISIS。 我不禁心痛， 这就是我们如何被呈献给世界的， 甚至是从文学的角度。 我不禁自问：那些闻名世界的作家， 像是Naguib Mahfouz，Khalil Gibran， 以及著名诗人，比如Mutanabbi， Nizar Qabbani，他们身上发生了什么？ 想想吧。 世界上一整个地区丰富，多样的 文化产物， 正在被视为文明的冗余， 几乎沦落到了被忽视的境地。 世界上一整个地区的文化产物 无法对世界媒体以及 当代社会的走向 形成任何实质影响。 然后我回想起我的第一信念： 设计可以改变世界。 只需要让人们看到你的设计， 感受并建立联系。
And so I started. I thought about how can I stop the world from seeing us as evil, as terrorists of this planet, and start perceiving us as equals, fellow humans? How can I save and honor the Arabic script and share it with other people, other cultures? And then it hit me: What if I combined the two most significant symbols of innocence and Arab identity? Maybe then people could resonate. What's more pure, innocent and fun as LEGO? It's a universal child's toy. You play with them, you build with them, and with them, you imagine endless possibilities.
所以我开始行动。 我思考着如何才能阻止世界 将我们与恶魔划等号， 将我们等同于这个星球上的恐怖分子； 取而代之的是，开始将 我们视为平等的存在， 视为人类同胞。 我怎么才能拯救阿拉伯语， 并将它分享给其他人，其他文化？ 然后我想到了： 如果我将两个最重要的 纯洁象征以及阿拉伯身份 结合起来会怎么样？ 或许那样，人们就会有所共鸣。 还有什么比乐高更纯洁和有趣呢？ 这是世界性的儿童玩具。 人人都玩乐高，搭乐高， 有了乐高，就有无限的可能性。
My eureka moment was to find a bilingual solution for Arabic education, because effective communication and education is the road to more tolerant communities. However, the Arabic and Latin scripts do not only represent different worlds but also create technical difficulties for both Eastern and Western communities on a daily basis.
灵光乍现时，我想到要寻找 阿拉伯教学的双语方案， 因为有效的沟通和教育 能够带给我们更加包容的社区。 但是，阿拉伯语以及拉丁语 不仅仅代表了不同的世界， 而且时刻都在为东方和西方的群体 设置技术性障碍。
There are so many reasons why Arabic and Latin are different, but here are some of the main ones. Yes, both use upward and downward strokes, but have completely different baselines. Arabic tends to be more calligraphic and connectivity is important to the Arabic language, whose letters have to be mostly joined in order to articulate a given word. It also uses an entirely different system of punctuation and diacritics. But most importantly, Arabic has no capital letters. Instead it has four different letter forms: initial, medial, isolated and final. I want to introduce the Arabic language to young learners, foreign speakers, but most importantly help refugees integrate to their host societies through creating a bilingual learning system, a two-way flow of communication. And I called it "Let's Play."
为何阿拉伯语和拉丁语系 如此不同，有许多原因， 这只是其中主要的一些。 是的，两者都用了上行和下行的笔锋， 但有着完全不同的基线。 阿拉伯语更加注重书写， 连接性对这一语言很重要， 字母大都连在一起，以表达某个词语。 它还使用了一套截然不同的 停顿和变音符号系统。 但最重要的是， 阿拉伯语没有大写字母。 它有四种不同的字母形式： 首字母、中间字母、尾字母和独立字母。 我想将阿拉伯语介绍给 年轻的学习者和外国人， 但更重要的是，通过构建双语学习系统 帮助难民融入他们的接收国， 即建立一种双向的交流。 我称之为“Let's Play” （“一起玩耍”）。
The idea is to simply create a fun and engaging way of learning Modern Standard Arabic through LEGO. These are the two words. "Let's Play." Every colored bar marks an Arabic letter. As you can see, the letter is explained in form, sound and examples of words in function, in addition to the equivalent in Latin. Together, they form a fun pocket book with the 29 Arabic letters and the four different forms, plus a 400-word dictionary.
其背后的想法是，通过乐高构建 一种有趣且引人入胜的 学习现代标准阿拉伯语的手段。 这就是阿拉伯语中的“Let's Play”。 每个彩色条都表示一个阿拉伯字母。 你可以看到，字母通过形状、声音、 以及在例子中的运用被诠释出来， 还有拉丁语系的翻译。 这一同组成了一本有趣的口袋书， 其中包括29个阿拉伯字母 以及它们的四种形式， 还有包含四百个词语的字典。
So this is how the page looks like. You have the letter, the transliteration in Latin and the description underneath.
页面看上去是这样的。 包含字母， 拉丁语种的翻译， 以及下方的解释。
I'll take you through the process. So first in my tiny studio in Florence, I built the letters. I photographed each letter separately, and then I retouched every letter and chose the correct color background and typefaces to use. Ultimately, I created the full letter set, which is 29 letters times four different forms. That's 116 letters build just in one week.
下面我来解释一下我是怎么做的。 一开始我在佛罗伦萨的小单间里， 构建了这些字母。 我给每个字母单独拍照， 然后给每个字母润色， 并选择合适的背景颜色， 以及将使用的字体。 最终，我完成了一整套字母， 即29个字母乘上四种不同的形式。 一周之内，我完成了116个字母的设计。
I believe that information should and can be fun, portable. This book is the final product, which I would eventually like to publish and translate into as many languages in the world, so that Arabic teaching and learning becomes fun, easy and accessible globally. With this book, I hope to save my nation's beautiful script.
我相信这种知识应该并且 可以变得有趣，便于携带。 这本书就是最后的成品， 我希望最终可以出版， 并可以被翻译成世界上的多种语言， 这样阿拉伯语教学和学习就可以 在全球范围内变得有趣、简单且无障碍。 通过这本书，我希望能够 拯救祖国的美丽文字。
(Applause)
（掌声）
Thank you.
谢谢。
Working on this project was a form of visual meditation, like a Sufi dance, a prayer to a better planet. One set of building blocks made two languages. LEGO is just a metaphor. It's because we are all made of the same building unit, is that I can see a future where the barriers between people all come tumbling down. So no matter how ugly the world around us gets, or how many discouraging books on ISIS, the terrorist group, and not Isis, the ancient Egyptian goddess, continue to be published, I will keep building one colorful world. Shukran, which means "thank you."
完成这个项目的过程 是一种视觉冥想， 就如苏菲舞， 是对更好的世界的祈祷。 一组基石成就了两种语言。 乐高只是一个象征。 这是因为你我生来本无差异， 我能看到这样一个未来， 存在于人与人之间的障碍 最终都将倒塌。 无论我们周围的世界 变得有多么的肮脏， 或是充斥着令人沮丧的 恐怖组织ISIS相关的书籍， 而与埃及女神伊西斯（Isis）有关的传说， 却无法持续被出版。 我仍会继续构建一个多彩的世界。 Shukran，意思是“谢谢”。
(Applause)
（掌声）
Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
谢谢。非常感谢。 谢谢。