"All I wanted was a much-deserved promotion, and he told me to 'Get up on the desk and spread 'em.'"
﻿“我想要的是应得的晋升 他却对我说，‘到桌子上去 张开腿’”
"All the men in my office wrote down on a piece of paper the sexual favors that I could do for them. All I had asked for was an office with a window."
”办公室里的所有男性在纸上写下 我能够为他们做的性施惠 而我要求的不过是一间带窗户的办公室“
"I asked for his advice about how I could get a bill out of committee; he asked me if I brought my kneepads."
”我向他请教怎样才能让法案 通过委员会的审核 他却问我是否带了护膝“
Those are just a few of the horrific stories that I heard from women over the last year, as I've been investigating workplace sexual harassment. And what I found out is that it's an epidemic across the world. It's a horrifying reality for millions of women, when all they want to do every day is go to work. Sexual harassment doesn't discriminate. You can wear a skirt, hospital scrubs, army fatigues. You can be young or old, married or single, black or white. You can be a Republican, a Democrat or an Independent. I heard from so many women: police officers, members of our military, financial assistants, actors, engineers, lawyers, bankers, accountants, teachers ... journalists. Sexual harassment, it turns out, is not about sex. It's about power, and about what somebody does to you to try and take away your power. And I'm here today to encourage you to know that you can take that power back.
以上这些 仅仅是我在过去一年从女性口中 得知的可怕的故事中的几个而已 那段时间里， 我一直在调查职场性骚扰 我所了解到的是 这是一个世界共通的现象 对许多的女性来说， 这是个令人惊骇的现实 她们每天想要的 只是单纯的工作而已 性骚扰一视同仁 你可能穿着裙子 医院手术服 或军队制服 你可能年轻或年长 已婚的或是单身 黑皮肤或是白皮肤。 你可以支持共和党，支持民主党 或者没有政治倾向 在我听到的女性遭遇中 有警察 军队成员 财务助理 演员，工程师，律师 银行家，会计，老师 记者 性骚扰，其实归根结底 是与性无关的 它与权力有关 是某人为了夺走你的权利 而对你做出的事情 我今天站在这里 就是为了鼓励你们 去夺回你们应有的权力
(Applause)
（掌声）
On July 6, 2016, I jumped off a cliff all by myself. It was the scariest moment of my life; an excruciating choice to make. I fell into an abyss all alone, not knowing what would be below. But then, something miraculous started to happen. Thousands of women started reaching out to me to share their own stories of pain and agony and shame. They told me that I became their voice -- they were voiceless. And suddenly, I realized that even in the 21st century, every woman still has a story.
2016年7月6日那天 我独身一人跳下了“悬崖” 那是我人生中最可怕的时刻 一个极其痛苦的决定 我孤身坠入深渊 不知道下面有什么在等着我 但是，神奇的事情开始发生 数千名女性开始联系我 同我分享她们充满痛苦和耻辱的故事 她们告诉我，我变成了她们的声音 她们原本是无声的 然后忽然间，我意识到即便是在21世纪 每一位女性仍然有难以言说的故事
Like Joyce, a flight attendant supervisor whose boss, in meetings every day, would tell her about the porn that he'd watched the night before while drawing penises on his notepad. She went to complain. She was called "crazy" and fired. Like Joanne, Wall Street banker. Her male colleagues would call her that vile c-word every day. She complained -- labeled a troublemaker, never to do another Wall Street deal again. Like Elizabeth, an army officer. Her male subordinates would wave one-dollar bills in her face, and say, "Dance for me!" And when she went to complain to a major, he said, "What? Only one dollar? You're worth at least five or ten!"
比如乔伊斯 一位空乘主管 她的老板在每一天的会议里 都会跟她讲述前晚看的色情片 边讲边在他的笔记本上画男性生殖器 她去投诉了 被当作“疯了”，然后解雇 比如乔安妮，华尔街银行家 她的男性同事们 每天以肮脏的B打头的词语称呼她 她投诉过 但被贴上了闹事者的标签 从此没有再做过任何华尔街的交易 比如伊丽莎白，一位军官 男性下属们会在她的脸上 挥舞一美元的纸币 嘴里说”给我跳个舞“ 当她向一个少校反应这件事 他却说 ”什么？只有一美元？ 你至少值五或十美元！“
After reading, replying to all and crying over all of these emails, I realized I had so much work to do. Here are the startling facts: one in three women -- that we know of -- have been sexually harassed in the workplace. Seventy-one percent of those incidences never get reported. Why? Because when women come forward, they're still called liars and troublemakers and demeaned and trashed and demoted and blacklisted and fired. Reporting sexual harassment can be, in many cases, career-ending. Of all the women that reached out to me, almost none are still today working in their chosen profession, and that is outrageous.
在读过 回复过所有的信件 为所有信中发生的事件痛哭后 我意识到我有那么多的工作要做 令人吃惊的事实是： 在我们认识的人中， 每三名女性里就有一名 曾在工作场所被性骚扰 而百分之七十一的性骚扰事件 都不曾上报 为什么呢？ 因为当这些女性勇敢地站出来时 她们会被称做是骗子和闹事者 会被贬低、蓄意攻击 降职、列入黑名单 以及解雇 很多时候，告发性骚扰 可能会葬送职业生涯 所有同我联系过的女性中 几乎没有人还在她们选择的行业内工作 这个现象简直令人发指
I, too, was silent in the beginning. It happened to me at the end of my year as Miss America, when I was meeting with a very high-ranking TV executive in New York City. I thought he was helping me throughout the day, making a lot of phone calls. We went to dinner, and in the back seat of a car, he suddenly lunged on top of me and stuck his tongue down my throat. I didn't realize that to "get into the business" -- silly me -- he also intended to get into my pants. And just a week later, when I was in Los Angeles meeting with a high-ranking publicist, it happened again. Again, in a car. And he took my neck in his hand, and he shoved my head so hard into his crotch, I couldn't breathe. These are the events that suck the life out of all of your self-confidence. These are the events that, until recently, I didn't even call assault. And this is why we have so much work to do.
我，在最初也保持了沉默 这件事发生在我作美国小姐 一年任期的末尾 当时我去见一位职位很高的电视台主管 在纽约 我一整天都以为他要帮助我 他打了很多通电话 我们去吃晚餐 然后在车的后排座椅上， 他忽然抽身压住我 把他的舌头伸进我的喉咙 我竟然没有意识到，有点蠢 ”进入这行“包括他进入我的裤子 仅仅一个星期后 当我在洛杉矶约见一位级别很高的公关时 相同的事情又发生了 又是在一辆车里 他用手抓住了我的脖子 把我的头使劲按向他的胯部 我几乎窒息 这些事情摧毁你所有的自信心 我先前甚至不把这些事当作人身侵犯 直到最近 所以，这就是为什么我们在这一方面 还有那么多的工作要做
After my year as Miss America, I continued to meet a lot of well-known people, including Donald Trump. When this picture was taken in 1988, nobody could have ever predicted where we'd be today.
在美国小姐的任期之后 我继续与很多有名的人见面 包括唐纳德·特朗普 当这张照片在1988年被拍下来的时候 没有人预料到我们今天会走到这一步
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Me, fighting to end sexual harassment in the workplace; he, president of the United States in spite of it.
我，为了终结职场性骚扰而努力 他，尽管如此，成了美国总统
And shortly thereafter, I got my first gig in television news in Richmond, Virginia. Check out that confident smile with the bright pink jacket. Not so much the hair.
不久之后，我拿到电视新闻的职位 在列治文，弗吉尼亚州 看看穿着亮粉色夹克的这个自信笑容 发型就算了
(Laughter)
（笑声）
I was working so hard to prove that blondes have a lot of brains. But ironically, one of the first stories I covered was the Anita Hill hearings in Washington, DC. And shortly thereafter, I, too, was sexually harassed in the workplace. I was covering a story in rural Virginia, and when we got back into the car, my cameraman started saying to me, wondering how much I had enjoyed when he touched my breasts when he put the microphone on me. And it went downhill from there. I was bracing myself against the passenger door -- this was before cellphones. I was petrified. I actually envisioned myself rolling outside of that door as the car was going 50 miles per hour like I'd seen in the movies, and wondering how much it would hurt.
我那时十分努力地工作 证明金发女郎还是很有头脑 讽刺的是，我最初报道的几个事件中 有安妮塔·希尔性骚扰事件的听证会， 在华盛顿特区 此后不久 职场性骚扰也找上了我 我当时在弗吉尼亚州的乡村进行采访 当我们返回车里的时候 我的摄像师和我说 说他想知道， 当他把麦克风挂到我身上的时候 我有多享受他触摸我的胸部 从那里开始，事情只是越来越糟 我整个身体抵着乘客侧车门—— 这事情发生在手机问世之前 我整个人都吓呆了 我是真的设想过在50英里的速度下 从车门滚出去 就像电影里看到的那样 我确实心里盘算过这样做会有多痛
When the story about Harvey Weinstein came to light -- one the most well-known movie moguls in all of Hollywood -- the allegations were horrific. But so many women came forward, and it made me realize what I had done meant something.
当哈维·温斯坦事件曝光的时候—— 温斯坦是整个好莱坞最有名望的电影巨头之一 指控大的骇人 但是那么多的女人站了出来 这让我觉得 我先前所做的事情是有意义的
(Applause)
（掌声）
He had such a lame excuse. He said he was a product of the '60s and '70s, and that that was the culture then. Yeah, that was the culture then, and unfortunately, it still is. Why? Because of all the myths that are still associated with sexual harassment.
他的辩解是那么的差劲 他说他是60年代，70年代下的产物 还说当时的文化就是那样的 没错，当时的文化就是那样 但不幸的是，现在的文化依然是如此 为什么？ 因为现在仍然有那些 和性骚扰相关的谣传
"Women should just take another job and find another career." Yeah, right. Tell that to the single mom working two jobs, trying to make ends meet, who's also being sexually harassed.
”女人应该干一份别的工作， 找一个别的职业做“ 嗯，没错 去跟那些打着两份工 努力维持生计 同时还要被性骚扰的单身母亲这样说吧
"Women -- they bring it on themselves." By the clothes that we wear and the makeup that we put on. Yeah, I guess those hoodies that Uber engineers wear in Silicon Valley are just so provocative.
“女人们—— 她们这样都是自找的” 责任在我们所穿的衣服 我们的妆容 好吧，我猜硅谷工作的优步工程师们 穿的那些连帽衫实在太诱人了
"Women make it up." Yeah, because it's so fun and rewarding to be demeaned and taken down. I would know.
“这都是女人们编造的” 是啊，因为被贬低还有羞辱 真是太有趣，太有益了 这我是知道的
"Women bring these claims because they want to be famous and rich." Our own president said that. I bet Taylor Swift, one of the most well-known and richest singers in the world, didn't need more money or fame when she came forward with her groping case for one dollar. And I'm so glad she did.
“她们提出那些指控 因为她们想出名想变富有” 我们的总统曾这么说 我敢打赌泰勒·斯威夫特 这世界上最有名最富有的歌手之一 不是因为需要更多的钱或者名气 才站出来为她的猥亵事件 索要一美元的索赔 我很高兴她这么做
Breaking news: the untold story about women and sexual harassment in the workplace: women just want a safe, welcoming and harass-free environment. That's it.
特大新闻： 女人和职场性骚扰：不为人知的故事 女性只想要安全，友善 杜绝骚扰的环境 就这样而已
(Applause)
（掌声）
So how do we go about getting our power back? I have three solutions.
所以，我们要如何做 才能把我们的权利夺回来呢 我有三个解决方法
Number one: we need to turn bystanders and enablers into allies. Ninety-eight percent of United States corporations right now have sexual harassment training policies. Seventy percent have prevention programs. But still, overwhelmingly, bystanders and witnesses don't come forward. In 2016, the Harvard Business Review called it the "bystander effect." And yet -- remember 9/11. Millions of times we've heard, "If you see something, say something." Imagine how impactful that would be if we carried that through to bystanders in the workplace regarding sexual harassment -- to recognize and interrupt these incidences; to confront the perpetrators to their face; to help and protect the victims. This is my shout-out to men: we need you in this fight. And to women, too -- enablers to allies.
第一个： 我们需要把旁观者和推动者 变成我们的盟友 百分之九十八的美国公司现在 都有关于性骚扰的培训政策 百分之七十的公司有预防措施 尽管如此，绝大部分来讲 旁观者和证人还是不会站出来 在2016年 《哈佛商业评论》称这种现象为《旁观者效应》 还记得911事件吗 我们听到过这句话千百万遍 “目睹事件 通报事件” 想一想，如果我们把这个观点 贯彻到职场性骚扰事件中 落实到旁观者身上，效果会多好 人们能认知并插手 人们会与加害者当面对质 人们会帮助以及保护受害者 这是我对所有男性发出的呼吁： 在这场战斗中，我们需要你们 同样，我们也呼吁女性 不要助纣为虐，合作灭罪
Number two: change the laws. How many of you out there know whether or not you have a forced arbitration clause in your employment contract? Not a lot of hands. And if you don't know, you should, and here's why. TIME Magazine calls it, right there on the screen, "The teeny tiny little print in contracts that keeps sexual harassment claims unheard." Here's what it is. Forced arbitration takes away your Seventh Amendment right to an open jury process. It's secret. You don't get the same witnesses or depositions. In many cases, the company picks the arbitrator for you. There are no appeals, and only 20 percent of the time does the employee win. But again, it's secret, so nobody ever knows what happened to you. This is why I've been working so diligently on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC to change the laws. And here's what I tell the Senators: sexual harassment is apolitical. Before somebody harasses you, they don't ask you if you're a Republican or Democrat first. They just do it. And this is why we should all care.
第二个： 改变相关的法律 多少在座的人知道 自己的雇佣合同中是否有 强迫仲裁条款 没有很多人举手 如果你不清楚的话， 你应该调查一下 我告诉你为什么 《时代杂志》称呼这个条款为 就在屏幕上写着 “合同上用来掩盖性骚扰的 细小印刷字体” 就是它 强制仲裁剥夺了你在宪法第七条修正法案中 拥有公开陪审团审理程序的权利 这是个公开的秘密。 你不会得到和其他人相同的证人以及证词 依照在大多数案例， 你的公司会选一个仲裁人给你 之后也不会有上诉 而且仅有百分之二十的员工 最后赢得了官司 就算是获胜，仍是秘密 所以，不会有任何人会知道， 在你身上发生的事 这就是为什么我一直以来那么努力地 在华盛顿特区跟国会山方面做工作 就是为了要更改这些法律 这是我跟参议员们所说的： 性骚扰是无政治意义的 在有人骚扰你之前 他们不会先问你支持共和党还是民主党 他们一视同仁 所以这就是为什么我们都必须关注这个问题
Number three: be fierce. It starts when we stand tall, and we build that self-confidence. And we stand up and we speak up, and we tell the world what happened to us. I know it's scary, but let's do it for our kids. Let's stop this for the next generations. I know that I did it for my children. They were paramount in my decision-making about whether or not I would come forward. My beautiful children, my 12-year-old son, Christian, my 14-year-old daughter, Kaia. And boy, did I underestimate them.
第三个方案： 强势一点 当我们站出来 摆出自信姿态 不退缩、大声疾呼 把经历公诸于世 我知道这很可怕 但是，为了我们的孩子 一起努力吧 为了下一代，杜绝工作性骚扰吧 我为了我的孩子们这么做 他们在我决定是否要站出来的考量中 是至关重要的 我美丽的孩子 我12岁的儿子，克里斯汀 我14岁的女儿，凯娅 我真是低估了他们
The first day of school last year happened to be the day my resolution was announced, and I was so anxious about what they would face. My daughter came home from school and she said, "Mommy, so many people asked me what happened to you over the summer." Then she looked at me in the eyes and she said, "And mommy, I was so proud to say that you were my mom." And two weeks later, when she finally found the courage to stand up to two kids who had been making her life miserable, she came home to me and she said, "Mommy, I found the courage to do it because I saw you do it."
去年学校开学的第一天 正巧就是我决心公开的那一天 我很担心他们所要面对的事 我的女儿从学校回到家，她说 “妈妈，好多人问我 夏天时你怎么了” 然后她看着我的眼睛，她说 “对了妈妈， 我真的很骄傲 有你做我的妈妈” 然后两周之后 在她终于鼓起勇气去对抗 两个一直骚然她的孩子后 她回到家，和我说 “妈妈，我有这么做的勇气 是因为我看到你的勇气。”
(Applause)
（掌声）
You see, giving the gift of courage is contagious. And I hope that my journey has inspired you, because right now, it's the tipping point. We are watching history happen. More and more women are coming forward and saying, "Enough is enough."
看啊，勇气这份礼物是有感染力的 希望我的心路历程鼓舞了你 因为此刻，我们面临转折点 我们正在见证历史 越来越多的女人走到台前，告诉大家 “够了，适可而止吧！”
(Applause)
（掌声）
Here's my one last plea to companies. Let's hire back all those women whose careers were lost because of some random jerk. Because here's what I know about women: we will not longer be underestimated, intimidated or set back; we will not be silenced by the ways of the establishment or the relics of the past. No. We will stand up and speak up and have our voices heard. We will be the women we were meant to be. And above all, we will always be fierce.
在这里，我还有最后一点请求 希望企业们找回为了那些浑蛋 放弃自己职业生涯的女人吧 因为就我对女人的了解 我们将不会再被轻视， 威胁或者妨碍 我们将不再为体制 和过去的老套而闭嘴 不。 我们将站出来，说出来 让我们的声音远播 我们将成为我们本应该成为的人 尤其重要的是 我们将会勇往直前
Thank you.
谢谢
(Applause)
（掌声）