(Music)
﻿（音乐）
(Singing) I was walking down the line,
（歌唱）我正沿着这条路
trying to find some peace of mind.
试着去找些灵魂的宁静
Then I saw you.
然后我发现了你
You were takin' it slow and walkin' it one step at a time.
你走的太慢了，每次只迈出一步
I said, "Listen, stranger,
我说：“嘿，陌生人
I'm feeling low now.
我现在感觉到心情低落
I don't know which way to go."
不知道该去往何方”
I said, "If you're lost now,
我说：“如果你迷路了
maybe I could help you along and sing you a song,
也许我可以帮你，顺便附赠一首歌
and move you on and on and on."
助你继续前行，前行，前行”
Singing down the line.
沿着这道路歌唱
Where shall we go? Where shall we go?
我们要去往何方？何方？
She said, "I'm looking for a kind of shelter.
她说：“我在寻求一个庇护之地
A place for me to call my own.
一个属于我自己的地方
I've been walking all night long,
即便行走了一整夜
but I don't know where to call my home."
还是找不到那个叫家的地方”
"The only way to find that place
“找到那去处唯一的办法就是
is close to where my heart is.
靠近我的真心
I know I'm gonna get there,
虽然我知道我终将到达那里
but I've got to keep on walking down the line."
但我仍然要沿着这条道走下去”
Down the line.
沿着这条路
Down the line.
沿着这条路
Thank you so much.
谢谢大家
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
How's everybody feeling today? You feeling good?
大家今天感觉如何？心情舒畅吗？
(Cheers)
（欢呼）
Fantastic. Would everybody mind singing with me for just one second? Could you sing something? Could you sing a D? Sing "Ooh."
非常好.可以邀请大家为我添些旋律吗？ 可以吗，大家可以唱 “D” 吗？ 或者唱“Ooh”
(Audience hums)
（观众哼唱）
Oh -- louder for me, louder for me.
Oh -- 声音大一些，歌唱的声音再大一些
(Singing) Oh.
（唱）Oh
Now, please, if you could sing, "Oh oh oh."
现在，如果可以的话，请唱 “Oh Oh Oh”
Audience: Oh oh oh.
观众：Oh Oh Oh
Jacob Collier: Whoa oh oh.
Jacob Collier:Whoa oh oh
Audience: Whoa oh oh.
观众：Whoa oh oh
JC: Sing, "Whoa oh."
JC:唱，“Whoa oh”
Audience: Whoa oh.
观众：Whoa oh
JC: Oh oh oh.
JC：Oh oh oh
Audience: Oh oh oh.
观众：Oh oh oh
JC: Sing, "Whoa oh oh."
JC：唱，“Whoa oh oh”
Audience: Whoa oh oh.
观众：Whoa oh oh
JC: Sing, "Whoa oh oh."
JC：唱，“Whoa oh oh”
Audience: Whoa oh oh.
观众：Whoa oh oh
JC: Whoa oh oh.
JC：唱，“Whoa oh oh”
Audience: Whoa oh oh.
观众：Oh oh oh
JC: Sing, "Whoa oh oh."
JC：唱，“Whoa oh oh”
Audience: Whoa oh oh.
观众：Oh oh oh
Thank you so much. That's beautiful. Thank you.
谢谢大家，非常完美，谢谢
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
Thank you. So do you feel that motion? Do you feel yourself as part of that motion, things moving underneath the surface? So the language of musical harmony is an absolutely extraordinary one. It's a way of navigating one's emotional frameworks, but without the need to put things into words, and I think that, as with many other languages, it doesn't matter how much you know about a language. It doesn't matter how many words you can say, how many phrases you know. What matters is the emotional choices you make with this language. So I encourage us to embrace this idea as a community, which is the thing which in time may grow us towards as opposed to away from our own humanity.
谢谢 所以大家感受到这旋律了吗？ 感觉到作为旋律的一部分了吗？ 在表面下移动的旋律 所以音乐协调的语言是非常特别的 通过它可以畅游一个人的情绪空间 而不需要任何言语上的表达 我认为，就像其他语言一样 对一门语言了解多少无关紧要 能够演讲多少单词 多少语句都没有关系 但最为重要的是在语言中情绪的选择 所以我建议大家作为一个群体来拥抱这种观点 而这种观点也许 与我们的观点相背而行
Thank you so much.
非常感谢大家
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
(Music)
（音乐）
(Singing) Take me anywhere you want to go.
（唱）带着我 去往你想去的地方
You know that my love is strong.
你知道我的情真意切
In my hideaway.
在我那藏身之地 轻轻地 就像暴风雨后的平静
Softly, like the calm that follows storms,
寻找那我一直在寻找的
Find what I've been searching for all along.
在我那藏身之地
In my hideaway.
即便当我闭上双眼
Even when I close my eyes,
亲爱的，如果你误入歧途，我会前往我那藏身之地
darling, if you've gone astray, I'm on my way to my hideaway.
就像 我从未爱过那样，抚摸我
Touch me like I've never loved before,
在那心神向往的地方
in the place that I adore,
在我那藏身之地
in my hideaway.
我知道 无论在哪里大风刮向哪个方向
I know whichever way the wind may blow,
一定会有一个地方我可以前往
there will be a place for me to go
在我藏身的地方
in my hideaway.
在我的藏身的地方
My hideaway.
树枝和石子 我再也不能向你隐瞒
Sticks and stones I won't hide from you no more.
同时 我会找到那一直在找寻的
And in time I find what I've been searching for.
我听到你的声音 在呼唤着我
Heard your voice calling out to me.
我在前往 自由的道路之上
I'm on my way to where I can be free.
如果她不再等待着我，没关系，不要回头
And if she won't wait for me, do it right, don't look back,
让我的真心走在未来的路上
keep my heart on the future.
前往那自我认识她以后
On the soles of my shoes all the places I've been
就走过的脚下之路
that I've known since I knew her.
“因为是你，让我认为你就是
'Cause it's you, don't you know that you're making me guess
我生命中的唯一
that you're the one for me.
我猜测我一直想了解的就是你
That it's you that I guess that I wanted to know all along.
姑娘，你就是我想要的，使我完整
Girl, it's you that I want, that makes me complete,
因为你就是我生命中的唯一
cause you're the one for me.
因为你，我想让你知道我的心在哪里
It's thanks to you that I guess that I want you to know I belong.
一，二，三，四，五。
One, two, three, four, five.
（鼓掌）
(Applause)
非常感谢大家，谢谢
Thank you so much. Thank you.
（鼓掌）
(Applause)
谢谢 非常感谢，谢谢大家
Thank you. Thanks so much. Thank you guys.
Kelly Stoetzel：好的，Jacob 哇哦
Kelly Stoetzel: OK, Jacob. Wow.
我们呢有些问题想要问一下 JC：好的
OK, we have some questions. JC: OK.
KS：这实在是太惊艳了
KS: That was spectacular.
JC：谢谢，Kelly 谢谢你
JC: Thank you, Kelly. Thank you.
KS：这些我们所见的 是同步的，是吗？
KS: Those visualizations we just saw, those were happening in real time, yeah?
JC：没错，可见的每一处都 从听到的声音或者词汇中获取暗示而形成 所以每一处都是同步的 我打开循环，演奏乐器 然后出现了树，例如，你看到树的生长 汲取低而长的音符， 从而生长粗壮幽长的树枝 汲取高而短的音符，便生长纤细幼小的树枝 我歌唱的声音 就像风一样吹拂过大树
JC: Yeah, so everything visual takes cues from things which are audial, or something, if that's a word, and so everything is real time. I cue the loops, I play the instruments and then the tree, for example, that you saw grow, grows in such a way that it takes low long notes and grows thick long branches, and it takes high, quiet notes, whatever, and then it grows thin, small branches. And then my singing voice sort of blows wind against the tree.
KS：所以你今年22岁 JS：没错
KS: So you're 22 years old. JC: Yes, indeed.
主持人：你自己一个人演奏了所有 你是怎样开始以及怎样爱上它的呢？
Moderator: You played all of that by yourself. How did you get started and how did this all evolve?
JC：我在我的房子里搭建了这个魔幻之屋 在伦敦的北边，额，就在那边
JC: I have this magical room in my house in North London, which is, like, over there.
（欢呼）
(Cheers)
谢谢，代表北伦敦，谢谢大家 这魔幻之屋 -- 我是说，我家人的家园 我生长在充满乐器的这间房间下 但最重要的， 我的家人对我的鼓励以及对我想象的支持 所以我所创作的，我所完成的都是很完美的 因为我制作了它们，我认为它们很重要 从心底讲，这间房间就是我的天堂 当我发行我的唱片《In My Room》 我想我可以带着我的房间前往更多地方 这确实是个奇特的想法 但这也正是我这几年所做的事情 沉迷于此同样也令我激动
Thank you. Represent North London. And this room -- I mean, this is my family home. I grew up in this room filled with musical instruments, but most importantly, I had a family who encouraged me to invest in my own imagination, and so things I created, things I built were good things to be building just because I was making them, and I think that's such an important idea. But this room was my paradise, essentially, and when I came to tour my album, which is called "In My Room," I thought I'd try and tour the room on the road, and that's quite a strange idea, but it's something that I've been working on for a couple of years, and it's quite exciting to be inside the circle.
KS：所以在这里的布局就像在你的房间里一样，是嘛？
KS: So this is really like the setup in your room, here.
JC：可以这么说，和我的房间非常像 这样我可以在合适的时间点 创作出我要的东西，并自然的完成 既包括了完美的音乐也包括了完美的想法
JC: It kind of is. It's similar to the room in the sense that I can generate things on the spot and I can be spontaneous, which is what I think both music and all of the best ideas are all about.
KS：你曾赢得了两次格莱美奖 并创造了个人完成唱片的记录 这怎么可能，我们都未曾想过 这在五年前不可能发生的
KS: So you won two Grammys for a record that you made in your room by yourself. And how is that even possible? We couldn't have done that, that couldn't have happened five years ago even.
JC：现在是一个全新的世界 大家一定会认可 制作权就掌握在创作者的手中 相比于大型唱片制作公司 或是名人一类的 只要你有好的想法 我现在站在TED的舞台上对你们大家说 只要你有好的想法，就能扎根发芽 就可以把火炬传递到全世界 没错，我自己一个人完成了这个唱片 我也不会等着其他人说 “嘿 Jacob，你应该自己去制作一个唱片” 我就是一直前行然后就做到了，我不在乎其他人会想什么 不过格莱美奖对我来说确实是巨大的奖励
JC: It's a brand new world. The power is now in the hands of the creator, as I'm sure you guys would agree, as opposed to the big record company executive or the big man or something like that. It's somebody with a good idea. Here I am at TED saying this to you guys who know this already, but it's somebody with a good idea who can sow that seed. That's the person who carries the torch into the world. And yeah, I made this album completely on my own and I didn't wait for somebody to say, "Hey Jacob, you should make an album on your own." I just went ahead and made it and I didn't mind what people thought, and two Grammys is a massive bonus.
（鼓掌）
(Applause)
KS：非常感谢你，Jacob JC：谢谢，Kelly，非常感谢 （鼓掌）