We are all activists now.
﻿如今的我们，都是积极人士。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
Thank you.
谢谢。
I'll just stop here.
看来我的演讲已经结束了。
(Laughter)
（笑）
From the families who are fighting to maintain funding for public schools, the tens of thousands of people who joined Occupy Wall Street or marched with Black Lives Matter to protest police brutality against African Americans, families that join rallies, pro-life and pro-choice, those of us who are afraid that our friends and neighbors are going to be deported or that they'll be added to lists because they are Muslim, people who advocate for gun rights and for gun control and the millions of people who joined the women's marches all across the country this last January.
从为了维持公立学校 办学基金的家庭， 到加入“占领华尔街”的成千上万人， 或者“Black Lives Matter”游行， 抗议警察针对非洲籍美国人的暴行， 加入集会 反死刑，反堕胎的家庭， 我们中那些担心 我们的朋友或者邻居 会因为穆斯林的身份 而被驱除离境 或者被加入黑名单的人， 枪支权利和枪支控制支持者， 以及数百万的女权支持者， 在今年的1月份，他们的游行 遍布全美，轰轰烈烈。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
We are all activists now, and that means that we all have something to worry about from surveillance. Surveillance means government collection and use of private and sensitive data about us. And surveillance is essential to law enforcement and to national security. But the history of surveillance is one that includes surveillance abuses where this sensitive information has been used against people because of their race, their national origin, their sexual orientation, and in particular, because of their activism, their political beliefs.
如今的我们都是积极人士， 那意味着我们都会担心被监控。 监控就是政府收集和运用 我们的私人敏感信息。 监控对司法 以及国防十分重要。 但是监控的历史 包括了滥用敏感信息， 以用来对付人民的事例， 因为他们的种族， 血统， 性取向， 特别是，他们的积极主张， 以及政治信仰。
About 53 years ago, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his "I have a dream" speech on the Mall in Washington. And today the ideas behind this speech of racial equality and tolerance are so noncontroversial that my daughters study the speech in third grade. But at the time, Dr. King was extremely controversial. The legendary and notorious FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover believed, or wanted to believe, that the Civil Rights Movement was a Soviet communist plot intended to destabilize the American government. And so Hoover had his agents put bugs in Dr. King's hotel rooms, and those bugs picked up conversations between civil rights leaders talking about the strategies and tactics of the Civil Rights Movement. They also picked up sounds of Dr. King having sex with women who were not his wife, and J. Edgar Hoover saw the opportunity here to discredit and undermine the Civil Rights Movement. The FBI sent a package of these recordings along with a handwritten note to Dr. King, and a draft of this note was found in FBI archives years later, and the letter said, "You are no clergyman and you know it. King, like all frauds, your end is approaching." The letter even seemed to encourage Dr. King to commit suicide, saying, "King, there is only one thing left for you to do. You know what it is. You better take it before your filthy, abnormal, fraudulent self is bared to the nation."
53年前， 马丁路德金博士在华盛顿广场上 发表了他著名的演讲， “我有一个梦”。 现如今，这个讲演 背后的种族平等和容忍理念 已经不再充满着敏感和批判， 我女儿在3年级 就学习这个演讲了。 但在那个时代， 马丁路德金是备受争议的。 传说中臭名昭著的联邦调查局 局长埃德加·胡佛相信， 或愿意相信， 民权运动是一个 苏维埃共产主义阴谋， 意图破坏分裂美国政府。 于是，胡佛和他的特工把窃听器 放在金博士酒店的房间里， 这些窃听器收集了 民权领导人之间的对话， 涉及到民权运动的战略和策略。 他们也收集了金博士 和其他女人有染的绯闻， 胡佛在这里发现了机会 去诋毁和破坏民权运动。 中央情报局把这些录音 和一封手写的信 打包寄给了金博士。 若干年后，该信的一份草稿 在中央情报局的档案中被发现， 信上说， “你不是清白的，你也知道这点， 金，像所有骗子一样， 你就要完蛋了。“ 这封信被认为是鼓励金博士自杀， 信中说 “仅仅有一件事你可以做， 你知道是什么。 你最好在自己的肮脏， 变态和欺诈行为 被暴露在于这个国家 之前采取行动。“
But the important thing is, Dr. King was not abnormal. Every one of us has something that we want to hide from somebody. And even more important, J. Edgar Hoover wasn't abnormal either. The history of surveillance abuses is not the history of one bad, megalomaniacal man. Throughout his decades at the FBI, J. Edgar Hoover enjoyed the support of the presidents that he served, Democratic and Republican alike. After all, it was John F. Kennedy and his brother Robert Kennedy who knew about and approved the surveillance of Dr. King. Hoover ran a program called COINTELPRO for 15 years which was designed to spy on and undermine civic groups that were devoted to things like civil rights, the Women's Rights Movement, and peace groups and anti-war movements. And the surveillance didn't stop there. Lyndon Baines Johnson, during the election campaign, had the campaign airplane of his rival Barry Goldwater bugged as part of his effort to win that election. And then, of course, there was Watergate. Burglars were caught breaking into the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate Hotel, the Nixon administration was involved in covering up the burglary, and eventually Nixon had to step down as president. COINTELPRO and Watergate were a wake-up call for Americans. Surveillance was out of control and it was being used to squelch political challengers. And so Americans rose to the occasion and what we did was we reformed surveillance law. And the primary tool we used to reform surveillance law was to require a search warrant for the government to be able to get access to our phone calls and our letters. Now, the reason why a search warrant is important is because it interposes a judge in the relationship between investigators and the citizens, and that judge's job is to make sure that there's good cause for the surveillance, that the surveillance is targeted at the right people, and that the information that's collected is going to be used for legitimate government purposes and not for discriminatory ones. This was our system, and what this means is that President Obama did not wiretap Trump Tower. The system is set up to prevent something like that from happening without a judge being involved.
重要的是， 金博士只是普通人， 我们每个人都有想隐瞒的事情。 更重要的是， 胡佛也是个普通人。 这起滥用监控的历史事件 不是一个心怀不轨的自大者的历史。 在中央情报局的几十年， 胡佛得到了任命他的 美国总统的支持， 不论是民主党还是共和党。 毕竟到最后，还是肯尼迪兄弟俩 批准了对金博士进行监控。 胡佛运行了一项 "反间谍计划"长达15年， 用来窥视和破坏民进组织， 这些组织主要关注民权运动， 妇女权利运动， 以及和平和反战运动。 监控并没有就此停止。 Lyndon Baines Johnson 在竞选期间 通过窃听竞争对手Barry Goldwater 在飞机上的谈话 获胜当选。 之后，当然就是水门事件。 窃贼们被抓住了， 他们闯入在水门酒店的 全国民主委员会总部， 而尼克松因为其政府卷入了 试图掩盖窃听的行动 而被迫辞职。 “反间谍计划”和水门事件 为美国敲响了警钟。 监控已经失控了， 而且正在被用来压制政治挑战者。 于是美国人乘势而起， 改革了监控法。 我们用来改革监控法的主要工具是， 要求提供搜查令， 政府才能查看我们的电话和信件。 为什么搜查令如此重要， 是因为法庭介入了 调查人员和公民的关系中， 法庭的作用是确认 有很好的理由行使监控权， 监控只针对适用的对象， 而收集来的信息 会被政府合法使用， 不带有歧视性的目的。 这就是我们曾经的系统， 它意味着 奥巴马总统没有窃听特朗普大楼。 系统是在没有法官介入的情况下 被用来防止旧事重演的。
But what happens when we're not talking about phone calls or letters anymore? Today, we have technology that makes it cheap and easy for the government to collect information on ordinary everyday people. Your phone call records can reveal whether you have an addiction, what your religion is, what charities you donate to, what political candidate you support. And yet, our government collected, dragnet-style, Americans' calling records for years. In 2012, the Republican National Convention highlighted a new technology it was planning to use, facial recognition, to identify people who were going to be in the crowd who might be activists or troublemakers and to stop them ahead of time. Today, over 50 percent of American adults have their faceprint in a government database. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives concocted a plan to find out what Americans were going to gun shows by using license plate detectors to scan the license plates of cars that were in the parking lots of these events. Today, we believe that over 70 percent of police departments have automatic license plate detection technology that they're using to track people's cars as they drive through town. And all of this information, the license plates, the faceprints, the phone records, your address books, your buddy lists, the photos that you upload to Dropbox or Google Photos, and sometimes even your chats and your emails are not protected by a warrant requirement. So what that means is we have all of this information on regular people that's newly available at very low expense. It is the golden age for surveillance.
然而，当我们不再谈论电话和 信件监控，又会发生什么呢？ 今天我们拥有的技术能让 政府用更加廉价和简易的 方式针对普通人 搜集信息。 你的电话记录 能够揭示你是否是瘾君子， 你的信仰是什么， 你捐助哪个慈善组织， 支持哪个政党候选人。 没错，我们的政府拉网式收集了 美国人多年的电话记录。 在2012年，共和党全国代表大会 强调了即将使用的一种新科技， 用面部识别 去找出人群中可能潜藏的 激进分子或者肇事者， 并提前中止他们的行动。 当今，有超过50%的 美国成年人的面部图像 被保存在政府的数据系统中。 美国烟酒枪炮及爆炸物管理局 炮制了一个计划， 通过用车牌检测器 在各个活动的停车场 扫描汽车牌照 来判断什么样的美国人 会去枪支秀。 如今，我们相信 有超过70%的警察部门 都有自动牌照检测技术， 当人们开车进城时进行车辆追踪。 所有这些信息， 车牌，面部记录， 电话记录， 你的地址和好友名单， 通过Dropbox和谷歌照片上传的照片， 有时甚至是聊天和邮件 都不受搜查令的保护。 那么，这就意味着我们普通人的信息 将会被政府以最小的代价 轻而易举地获得。 现在是监听的黄金岁月。
Now, every parent is going to understand what this means. When you have a little baby and the baby's young, that child is not able to climb out of its crib. But eventually your little girl gets older and she's able to climb out of the crib, but you tell her, "Don't climb out of the crib. OK?" And every parent knows what's going to happen. Some of those babies are going to climb out of the crib. Right? That's the difference between ability and permission. Well, the same thing is true with the government today. It used to be that our government didn't have the ability to do widespread, massive surveillance on hundreds of millions of Americans and then abuse that information. But now our government has grown up, and we have that technology today. The government has the ability, and that means the law is more important than ever before. The law is supposed to say when the government has permission to do it, and it's supposed to ensure that there's some kind of ramification. We notice when those laws are broken and there's some of kind of ramification or punishment. The law is more important than ever because we are now living in a world where only rules are stopping the government from abusing this information.
每个家长能都会明白这意味着什么。 当你有个小婴儿， 婴儿很小的时候， 不能爬出婴儿床。 但最终你的小女儿会长大， 能爬出婴儿床了， 但是你说“不要爬出来，可以吗？” 每个父母都知道会发生什么 一些孩子还是会爬出来。 这是能力和许可的区别。 政府也在做同样的事。 以前的政府没有这个能力 去广泛地，大规模地 监控几百万美国人， 并且滥用他们的信息。 而如今我们的政府正在壮大， 我们今天已经有了合适的技术。 政府有这个能力， 这就意味着法律比以往更加重要。 法律应该明确 哪些是政府可以监听的情况， 同时确保不遵守法律 而衍生的后果。 我们能够注意到当这些 法律没有被遵守时， 就会有些后果和惩罚。 法律比以往任何时期都重要， 因为我们如今生活在一个 只有法律能阻止政府滥用信息的 世界中。
But the law has fallen down on the job. Particularly since September 11 the law has fallen down on the job, and we do not have the rules in place that we need. And we are seeing the ramifications of that. So fusion centers are these joint task forces between local, state and federal government that are meant to ferret out domestic terrorism. And what we've seen is fusion center reports that say that you might be dangerous if you voted for a third-party candidate, or you own a "Don't Tread On Me" flag, or you watched movies that are anti-tax. These same fusion centers have spied on Muslim community groups' reading lists and on Quakers who are resisting military recruiting in high schools. The Internal Revenue Service has disproportionately audited groups that have "Tea Party" or "Patriot" in their name. And now customs and border patrol is stopping people as they come into the country and demanding our social networking passwords which will allow them to see who our friends are, what we say and even to impersonate us online.
但法律并没有发挥其应有的作用。 特别是从911以来， 法律就失去了效力， 我们在需要秩序的时候， 秩序却不在我们身边。 今天我们已经看到了 这样的局面造成的结果。 融合中心的任务应该是 在本地、州和联邦政府之间 联合搜寻国内恐怖主义活动。 我们在融合中心的报告中看到， 如果你投票给第三方候选人， 或者有一面“不要践踏我”的国旗， 或者收看了反对税收的电影， 你就可能有麻烦了。 这些融合中心暗中监视 穆斯林群体的阅读清单， 那些抵制高中军事招募的“贵格会”。 国税局有针对性地审查过 名称中有“茶党”或者“爱国者”的组织。 海关和边防巡逻队 正在拦截进入这个国家的人们， 向我们索取社交网站的密码， 他们可以看我们的朋友是谁， 我们说什么， 甚至在线模拟我们的言行。
Now, civil libertarians like myself have been trying to draw people's attention to these things and fighting against them for years. This was a huge problem during the Obama administration, but now the problem is worse. When the New York Police Department spies on Muslims or a police department uses license plate detectors to find out where the officers' spouses are or those sorts of things, that is extremely dangerous. But when a president repurposes the power of federal surveillance and the federal government to retaliate against political opposition, that is a tyranny. And so we are all activists now, and we all have something to fear from surveillance. But just like in the time of Dr. Martin Luther King, we can reform the way things are.
像我这样的公民自由主义者 多年来一直都在试图让人们 认识到自己的处境， 并与这些行为进行抗争。 这是奥巴马政府期间 就存在的巨大问题， 然而现在，这个问题更糟了。 当纽约警察局 暗中监视穆斯林， 或者用车牌检测器 找出军官的配偶在哪里， 或者其他类似的事情， 这非常危险。 但是当总统重新运用 联邦监控权和联邦政府， 对反对派进行报复， 这就是暴政。 如今的我们都是积极人士， 我们都会对监视感到恐惧。 但就像马丁路德金说的那样， 我们可以做出改变。
First of all, use encryption. Encryption protects your information from being inexpensively and opportunistically collected. It rolls back the golden age for surveillance.
首先，运用加密， 加密来保护自己的信息， 防止信息在我们毫无防备的情况下 被人轻易地收集。 让监视的黄金时代滚蛋。
Second, support surveillance reform. Did you know that if you have a friend who works for the French or German governments or for an international human rights group or for a global oil company that your friend is a valid foreign intelligence target? And what that means is that when you have conversations with that friend, the US government may be collecting that information. And when that information is collected, even though it's conversations with Americans, it can then be funneled to the FBI where the FBI is allowed to search through it without getting a warrant, without probable cause, looking for information about Americans and whatever crimes we may have committed with no need to document any kind of suspicion. The law that allows some of this to happen is called Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act, and we have a great opportunity this year, because Section 702 is going to expire at the end of 2017, which means that Congress's inertia is on our side if we want reform. And we can pressure our representatives to actually implement important reforms to this law and protect our data from this redirection and misuse.
第二，支持监控法改革。 你是否知道，如果你有一个朋友 为法国或者德国政府， 或者国际人权组织， 或者跨国石油公司工作， 你的朋友就成了情报局的目标？ 这意味着，当你和那个人交流时， 美国政府就可能在收集信息。 当信息被收集后， 即便是在美国人之间的对话， 在中情局允许的地方， 也会被中情局在 没有搜查令的情况下 进行排查， 而且不需要合适理由。 他们会搜查美国公民的信息， 以及我们曾经可能有过的犯罪记录， 而不需要对任何的怀疑进行记录。 FISA修正法案的第702条 就是这一切的罪魁祸首。 我们今年还有机会改变这一局面。 因为到2017年年底，该法案就将过期， 意味着如果我们希望改革， 国会会站在我们一边。 我们可以向代表人施压， 执行对这个法律的重要改革， 保护我们的数据被误导和滥用。
And finally, one of the reasons why things have gotten so out of control is because so much of what happens with surveillance -- the technology, the enabling rules and the policies that are either there or not there to protect us -- are secret or classified. We need transparency, and we need to know as Americans what the government is doing in our name so that the surveillance that takes place and the use of that information is democratically accounted for.
最后，一切都已经超出 掌控范围的原因之一， 是太多跟监听有关的事物—— 比如能够，以及尚不能够 保护我们的科技，授权和政策—— 都是保密的。 我们需要透明，作为 美国公民，我们有权知道 政府以我们的名义做了什么， 这样所有的监听事件，搜集的信息 都会需要民主的解释。
We are all activists now, which means that we all have something to worry about from surveillance. But like in the time of Dr. Martin Luther King, there is stuff that we can do about it. So please join me, and let's get to work.
我们都是积极人士， 我们都担心会被监控。 但就像马丁路德金的年代， 我们能够做出改变。 加入我，一起行动起来吧。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）