We humans are becoming an urban species, so cities, they are our natural habitat. That is where we live. In 2014, over 54 percent of the world population was living in cities, and I can bet you that so many of these people have thought of how they would do things differently, like if I only had the tools to change things in my city, what would I do? What would my dream city be like? And these tools, this is just what we gave them. Two years ago, my team and I, we released a game, "Cities: Skylines." It is a game about building cities.
﻿人类正在变成一个城市种族， 城市就是我们的自然栖息地。 我们住的地方。 在2014年，世界上有超过 54%的人口 居住在城市里， 我敢跟你说， 许多住在城市里的人都曾经想过 他们会怎样对城市做一些改变， 如果我有一些 可以改变城市的工具， 我会做些什么？ 我梦想中的城市是什么样的？ 而这些工具， 正是我们提供给他们的。 两年前，我和我的团队 发布了一款游戏， “城市：天际线” 这是一个关于建造城市的游戏。
So I have always been interested in cities as systems. It's something that I find immensely interesting. But what I didn't understand was that I am not alone in this. People love cities. They are interested. They have ideas. The game was an instant hit. So far, over three and a half million people have played it.
我一直以来都乐于把城市当成系统。 我发现这是极其有趣的一件事。 但我并没有意识到， 我并不是一个人。 人们喜欢城市， 他们很感兴趣，也有想法。 这个游戏瞬间就火了。 至今已经有超过350万人 玩过这个游戏了。
And it's not just about playing. We also have really awesome sharing systems. So people play, they create cities and then they are sharing these creations, showing off what they have made. And what I will show you is some of these cities created by the players.
并且这不仅仅是关于玩游戏。 我们还有很炫酷的分享系统。 所以人们玩这个游戏，建造城市， 然后分享这些创造， 展示他们的成果。 这里我将向你们展示 其中一些玩家 建造的城市。
So the game is about self-expression, creativity, not just overcoming the challenges posed by the simulation. It is about showing what your cities look like.
这个游戏是关于自我表达 和创造力的， 而不仅仅是克服一些 模拟技术上的挑战。 这是关于怎么展示你的城市样貌的。
So I have a couple of videos. These are from YouTube. And these are some of the most interesting city designs I have seen. So they are all different, and I hope you like all of these.
我这里有几段视频， 来自于YouTube。 这是一些我见过的最有趣的城市设计。 它们都非常与众不同， 我希望你们会喜欢。
This one is called The Netherlands. It's by Silvarret. And when you start the game, you have an empty piece of land. This land, it can be based on the real world, it can be hand-crafted in the map editor, or you can, of course, download a city made by someone else and play in that. But what Silvarret has done here is that what he wanted to make was not a real city. This is a fantasy city, even though it looks real. So what he wanted to do was a fantasy city that could be in the Netherlands. So he kind of investigated what are the characteristics of cities in the Netherlands and combined a couple of those, and this is what he created. So it is a city, but it is not a real city, but it could be. It looks just like the Netherlands. So the places are really densely populated. So what you need is highways, trains, anything connecting these small town centers together. Lots of people, lots of moving, so transportation is the key here.
这个叫做荷兰。 是Silvarret创造的。 当你开始玩这个游戏时， 你会得到一片空白的土地。 这片土地可以基于现实世界， 也可以是在地图编辑器上手工打造的， 或者也可以下载别人做好的地图， 然后在上面继续玩。 但是Silvarret是这样做的， 他想创造的 不是一个真正的城市。 这是一座梦幻的城市， 只是看起来很真实。 他想创建的是一座可能 存在于荷兰的梦幻城市。 所以他开始调查 荷兰的城市有哪些特征， 并且将这些特征结合起来， 这就是他想创建的东西。 所以，这是一座城市， 但又不是一座真的城市， 但它也有可能变成真的。 它看起来像极了荷兰。 这些地方住满了人。 那么你就需要高速公路，铁路， 一切可以把这些小城镇的 中心连接起来的东西。 人山人海，车水马龙， 交通运输在这里十分关键。
But then let's go even more on the fantasy side. Let's go into the future. This is one of my personal favorites. These city designs are what I love the most. So this is a tiered city by Conflictnerd, and the basic idea is that you have concentric circle routes. So the city is a big circle with tinier circles inside. And the thing is that you put all of the services in the center, and then people actually live on the outer ring, because there is less traffic, less noise, less pollution, so that is where you want to live. But the services are still really close by. They are in the center. And this is the soul of the game. The player has to understand what are the wishes, what are the needs of the tiny people living in the cities. So you need to know where you should put the things. Like, it's not enough to have a hospital. It needs to be accessible. Citizens need to reach the hospital. And this is one way to do it. So maybe this is something that we might be seeing someday.
让我们往梦幻的方向再进一步， 走进未来。 这是我个人最感兴趣的部分之一。 这些城市设计是我最喜欢的。 这是一名叫Conflictnerd的玩家 做出的一个层叠式城市， 其核心想法是把道路做成同心环， 整个城市是一个大环形， 在这个里面有更小的环形。 所有的服务功能都位于环形中心， 然后人们住在外面的环上， 因为在那里的车流， 噪音和污染都要更少。 这才是你想要住的地方。 但是城市的服务网络依然近在咫尺， 它们都在城市中心。 这才是这个游戏的灵魂。 玩家们需要认识到， 什么是住在城市里的小人物们想要的， 而什么又是它们真正需要的。 所以你需要知道怎么去 安排各种机构的位置。 比如只有一个医院是不够的。 医院要尽量触手可及。 居民们需要就近就医。 这种城市布局是 实现这个目标的一种方法。 也可能是我们未来某天能看到的东西。
And then even more into the future. Astergea by Yuttho. So Yuttho does YouTube videos and plays the game. What he did here was actually a 12-point series of creating this city. So what he does is he plays the game, he records it and he explains as he's going what he's doing and why. And as a part of this series, he actually did an interview with an actual urban planner called Jeff Speck. And Speck is an expert on the concept of walkability. The basic idea is that if you want your citizens to walk, which is kind of beneficial, you actually need to have walking as a reasonable means of transportation. It should be a good way to reach places. So what Yuttho did was that he explained this concept, he had Speck explain it, too, and then he applied it to the city that he was building. So what we are seeing is Yuttho's vision of the future: lots of public transportation, walkways, plazas, connecting high-rise buildings. Maybe this is what the future might look like. And the game system works really well for this.
现在我们再进一步走向未来。 这是Yuttho所创造的城市Astergea。 Yuttho会制作YouTube视频 同时也是这个游戏的玩家。 他做的其实是关于如何创造这座城市的 一个12点系列。 他一边玩游戏， 一边做记录， 同时会解释他在做什么， 以及为什么要这么做。 作为这个系列的一部分， 他甚至去采访了一个 真正的城市规划师， Jeff Speck。 Speck是“可步行”这一概念的专家， 其核心理念是如果你想让居民们 多从事步行这一有益的活动， 你就需要让步行成为一个 真正意义上的交通方式。 它应该作为一个到达目的地的好方法。 Yuttho解释了这一概念， 他也让Speck解释了一遍， 然后他将这一概念应用到了 他所建造的城市中。 我们看到的是Yuttho对于未来的远见： 多种多样的公共交通，步行街，广场， 连接着高层建筑。 这可能就是未来的样子。 并且这个游戏系统可以 很好的展现这样的理念。
We are seeing some real-world uses to this game. So we know that some urban planners are using it as a sketching tool, so while the simulation is not completely realistic, it is realistic enough that if something works in the game, it is highly likely that it will also work in the real world, so that you can actually try out things, see if this intersection might fit this kind of a situation. If we build a new road, would it help? And this is what you can do with this game.
我们看到这个游戏正在 真实世界发挥一些作用。 一些城市规划人员正在把它 当做一个草图工具在使用， 即使这些模拟并不是完全真实的， 它们也足够逼真了，如果 一些东西在游戏中起到了作用， 它们也很有可能 同样在真实世界起作用， 所以你可以利用游戏场景进行测试， 看看这个十字路口是否适合这种情况。 如果我们修建一条新路，会有帮助吗？ 这就是你能用这个游戏做的一些事情。
There was one really interesting contest held by the Finnish city of Hämeenlinna. So what they did was that they had a new area that they wanted to develop in the city. They made a map with the existing city, they left empty the area that they would want to develop and shared this map. So anyone could download the map, play the game, build the area and submit their creations to the city council. So they have not yet built anything, but it might just be that they use one of these plans made with the game to actually build the real city.
芬兰城市海门林纳 举办了一个很有趣的比赛。 他们是这样做的： 他们有一片想在城市中 开发的新区域。 他们根据现实的城市做了一个地图， 把想开发的区域留出一片空白 并且分享这个地图。 任何人都能下载这个地图， 玩这个游戏，建造这片区域， 并且将他们的创意提交给城市议会。 虽然他们现在还没有修建任何东西， 但是有可能他们会采用 这个游戏中的某一个规划创意 去建设一个真的城市。
And these videos that I have shown you, these are the people who are coming up with new kinds of solutions. We know that cities are growing. They're getting bigger as we go, and the percentage of population living in cities is projected to rise. So we need the solutions and these people, playing the game, they are trying out different kinds of solutions. They might have something that is really important. So what we are seeing here is dream cities that might be real one day. So it might be that this is not just a game. It might be a way to decide our own fate.
我向你们展示的这些视频的作者， 都是一些正在筹划解决方法的人。 我们知道城市规模 正随着人口的增长变得越来越庞大， 城市人口的比例也会如预期的增长。 我们需要这些解决方案 和玩这个游戏的这些人， 他们正在尝试着各种不同的解决方法。 他们可能会有一些真正重要的发现。 所以我们在这里见到的， 是有一天可能成真的梦想城市。 很有可能 这不仅仅是一个游戏。 这可能是一种 决定我们自己命运的方法。
Thank you.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
（掌声