The creative process -- you know this -- from the first idea to the final product, is a long process. It's super-iterative, lots of refinement, blood, sweat, tears and years. And we're not saying you're going to go out for a walk and come back with the Sistine Chapel in your left hand. So what frame of the creative process did we focus on? Just this first part. Just brainstorming, coming up with a new idea. We actually ran four studies with a variety of people. You were either walking indoors or outdoors. And all of these studies found the same conclusion. I'm only going to tell you about one of them today.
﻿众所周知，创意过程 从第一个想法冒出来到最终产品 是一个很长的过程。 需要超级多的 反复迭代，无数的改进， 血汗，泪水和时间。 我们讨论的并不是，你出去散个步， 左手就可以带着 西斯廷教堂（的设计）回来。 那么我们关注的是 创意过程的哪个环节？ 就是这第一部分。 去做头脑风暴，产生新点子。 我们针对一些不同的人做过四项研究， 包括了进行户外和室内散步的群体。 所有的这些研究都得出了相同的结论。 我今天只打算告诉你们其中一个例子。
One of the tests we used for creativity was alternate uses. In this test, you have four minutes. Your job is to come up with as many other ways to use common everyday objects as you can think of. So, for example, what else would you do with a key, other than to use it for opening up a lock? Clearly, you could use it as a third eyeball for a giraffe, right? Maybe. That's sort of interesting, kind of new. But is it creative? So people came up with as many ideas as they could, and we had to decide: Is this creative or not?
我们做创意研究的其中 一个测试是替代使用。 在这个测试中，你有4分钟的时间 要想出尽可能多的方法 去使用生活中你所能想到的 日常事物。 比如，除了开门外， 你还能用钥匙做什么？ 显然，你还可以它来当作长颈鹿的 第三只眼睛，没错吧？ 或许如此。但诸如此类好玩的 新使用方法，算是创意吗？ 虽然人们想出了各种各样的主意， 而我们需要判断， 这是不是创意？
The definition of creativity that a lot of people go with is "appropriate novelty." For something to be appropriate, it has to be realistic, so unfortunately, you can't use a key as an eyeball. Boo! But "novel," the second thing, is that nobody had to have said it. So for us, it had to be appropriate first, and then for novelty, nobody else in the entire population that we surveyed could have said it. So you might think you could use a key to scratch somebody's car, but if somebody else said that, you didn't get credit for it. Neither of you did. However, only one person said this: "If you were dying and it were a murder mystery, and you had to carve the name of the murderer into the ground with your dying words." One person said this.
很多人对创意的定义是 “适用的新奇”。 要让事情变得适用，就需要实用。 但不幸的是， 你无法将钥匙当眼球使用。 这不算数。 而第二点，新奇， 是指之前没有人提到过。 所以对我们而言，这首先得适用， 然后是新奇， 已知的地球人都没有想到这个。 所以如果你说可以 用钥匙来刮花别人的车， 但如果已经有人说过了， 就不够新奇了。 你们都不算。 然而，只有其中一个人这样说: “假如你快要死去，而且是被谋杀的， 你就可以（用钥匙） 把遗嘱和凶手的名字一起 刻在地上。” 有个人就是这样说。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And it's a creative idea, because it's appropriate and it's novel.
所以这是一个创造性的想法， 因为适用，而且新奇。
You either did this test and came up with ideas while you were seated or while you were walking on a treadmill.
你参与这个测试的 时候是可以是坐着的， 也可以是在跑步机上走步。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
They did the test twice, with different objects. Three groups: the first group sat first and then sat again for the second test. The second group sat first and then did the second test while walking on a treadmill. The third group -- and this is interesting -- they walked on the treadmill first, and then they sat. OK, so the two groups that sat together for the first test, they looked pretty similar to each other, and they averaged about 20 creative ideas per person. The group that was walking on the treadmill did almost twice as well. And they were just walking on a treadmill in a windowless room. Remember, they took the test twice. The people who sat twice for that second test didn't get any better; practice didn't help. But these same people who were sitting and then went on the treadmill got a boost from walking. Here's the interesting thing. The people who were walking on the treadmill still had a residue effect of the walking, and they were still creative afterwards. So the implication of this is that you should go for a walk before your next big meeting and just start brainstorming right away.
他们做了这个测试两次， 每次都针对不同的人群。 三个组，第一组第一次坐着回答， 第二次测试也是坐着回答。 第二组，第一次先坐着， 第二次则在跑步机上走着。 第三组，就比较有意思了， 他们第一次先在跑步机上走， 然后再坐下回答问题。 那么两个先坐着测试的小组， 他们的想法彼此差异不大， 每个人平均有20个创意。 那个在跑步机上行走的小组 几乎想出了两倍的创意。 而他们做的无非是在没有窗户的室内， 在跑步机上散步了一会儿。 记住，他们每组人测试了两次。 两次都坐着的受试者， 第二次的成绩并没有变好， 练习并无帮助。 但先坐着，然后在跑步机上行走的人， 成绩出现了飙升。 这就是有趣的地方。 在跑步机上行走的人 表现出了散步的残余效应， 后期仍然富有创意。 这个研究的启发就是， 在你的一个重要会议开始前， 你应该出去散个步， 然后立马开始头脑风暴。
We have five tips for you that will help make this the best effect possible. First, you want to pick a problem or a topic to brainstorm. So, this is not the shower effect, when you're in the shower and all of a sudden, a new idea pops out of the shampoo bottle. This is something you're thinking about ahead of time. They're intentionally thinking about brainstorming a different perspective on the walk.
我们有5点提示， 将会帮你取得最好的效果。 首先，你需要带着要进行 头脑风暴的问题或话题。 这并不是冲凉效应， 你洗着澡，突然之间， 新的主意就从满头的 泡沫中冒出来了。 而是你提前就在思考的东西。 在行走的时候下意识的 用不同的视角 进行头脑风暴。
Secondly -- I get asked this a lot: Is this OK while running? Well, the answer for me is that if I were running, the only new idea I would have would be to stop running, so ...
第二——我常常被人问， 跑步的时候也行吗？ 好吧，对我来讲，我跑步的时候 唯一想到的新主意就是停下来······
(Laughter)
（笑声）
But if running for you is a comfortable pace, good. It turns out, whatever physical activity is not taking a lot of attention. So just walking at a comfortable pace is a good choice.
但假如跑步对你 是一种非常舒适的运动，那没问题。 不论是哪种体力活动， 只要不分担太多注意力就行。 所以在舒适的地方散步 是蛮好的选择。
Also, you want to come up with as many ideas as you can. One key of creativity is to not lock on that first idea. Keep going. Keep coming up with new ones, until you pick one or two to pursue.
另外，去想出尽可能多的主意。 创意的一个关键是 不要纠结在第一个主意上。 继续前进。 继续想新的主意， 直至你选择出1-2个来深入思考。
You might worry that you don't want to write them down, because what if you forget them? So the idea here is to speak them. Everybody was speaking their new ideas. So you can put your headphones on and record through your phone and then just pretend you're having a creative conversation, right? Because the act of writing your idea down is already a filter. You're going to be like, "Is this good enough to write down?" And then you write it down. So just speak as many as you can, record them and think about them later.
你可能会担心如果不把它写下来 回头忘记了怎么办？ 最好的方法是把它说出来。 每个人都说出他们的新主意。 你可以带上耳机，用手机录下来， 就假想自己在进行一场 有创意的对话，没错吧？ 因为把主意写下来的动作 就是一种过滤。 你不由得会想： “这真的值得写下来吗？” 然后才会动笔。 所以尽可能多的去说出来，录下来， 事后再花时间认真思考。
And finally: don't do this forever. Right? If you're on the walk and that idea's not coming to you, come back to it later at another time.
最后，不要一直这么做。 如果散步并不能给你带来好主意， 稍后再来一次。
I think we're coming up on a break right now, so I have an idea: Why don't you grab a leash and take your thoughts for a walk?
我想现在我们就需要稍作休息了， 我有个主意： 何不带上你的宠物， 带着你的想法出去溜达一圈？
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）