I was six when I had the first chance to learn what patience means. My grandmother gave me a magic box as a birthday present, which neither of us knew would become a gift for life. I became obsessed with magic, and at 20, I became an amateur dove magician. This act of magic requires that I train my doves to sit and wait inside my clothing. As a young magician, I was always in a rush to make them appear, but my teacher told me the secret to the success of this magical act is to make my doves appear only after they've waited patiently in my tuxedo. It has to be a mindful kind of patience, the kind that took me some years to master.
﻿我六岁那年第一次知道了“耐心”这个词的意思 我外祖母给了我一个神奇的盒子作为我的生日礼物 我们那时都不知道这个礼物会成为我重要的一部分 我疯狂爱上了魔术 20岁时，我变成了一个业余的鸽子魔术师 这种魔术需要对鸽子进行训练 训练他们耐心等在我的衣服角落 作为一个年轻魔术师，我总是迫不及待得让它们现身 但是我的老师告诉我 这个魔术成功的秘密 就在于让我的鸽子“耐心”等待后 华丽现身于我的礼服 这是一种有意识的耐心 这种意识需要长年累月的培养
When life took me to Shanghai seven years ago, the mindful patience I learned became almost impossible to practice. In China, where everyone and everything is in a hurry, you need to outperform over 1.3 billion other people to build a better life. You hack the system, bend the rules, circumvent the boundaries. It is the same when it comes to food ... except that when it comes to food, impatience can have dire consequences. In the haste to grow more, sell more, 4,000 years of agriculture in a country of rich natural resources is spoiled by the overuse of chemicals and pesticides. In 2016, the Chinese government revealed half a million food safety violations in just nine months. Alarmingly, one in every four diabetics in the world now comes from China. The stories around food are scary and somewhat overwhelming, and I told myself it's time to bring a mindful patience into the impatience.
当我七年前回到上海 我几乎无法保持这种有意识的耐心 在中国， 每个人总是急急忙忙的 你需要胜过其他13亿人 才可能拥有更好的生活 你需要破解这个系统，熟知它的准则 并且打破它的边界 这个道理对于食物也同样适用 但是当我们谈论食物时 不耐心的人往往导致最糟糕的结果 当人们匆忙地种植，抛售 这个拥有四千年农耕历史和丰富自然资源的国家 正在一点一点被农药和杀虫剂吞噬 2016年，仅仅短短九个月内 中国政府就批报了超过五十万个食品安全违规违法行为 更值得我们敲响警钟的是，每四个糖尿病患者 就有一个来自中国 这些关于食物的故事 让我们感到恐惧和担忧 我告诉自己，我们需要教会大家怎么变得耐心
When I say mindful patience, I don't mean the ability to wait. I mean knowing how to act while waiting. And so, while I wait for the day when a sustainable food system becomes a reality in China, I launched one of China's first online farmers market to bring local, organically grown produce to families. When we went live, 18 months ago, the food we could sell then was somewhat dismal. We had no fruit and hardly any meat to sell, as none that was sent to the lab passed our zero tolerance test towards pesticides, chemicals, antibiotics and hormones. I told our very anxious employees that we would not give up until we've met every local farmer in China.
而这种耐心 不仅仅只是学会等待 更是学会一种有意义的有目标的等待 所以我等着这一天 等待一种可持续的食物供给模式在中国成为现实 我创办了中国第一家农产品销售网站 把当地的生产的，有机的农产品带给家庭 18个月前，我们的网站开始运营 但是我们销售的产品非常有限 没有人能通过我们的网站销售水果和肉类 因为那些产品都达不到我们所指定的产品标准 这些标准涵盖了杀虫剂，化肥，抗生素和各种激素 我告诉我们心焦的员工 我们永远不放弃寻找，直到见过每一个农民为止
Today, we supply 240 types of produce from 57 local farmers. After almost one year of searching, we finally found chemical-free bananas grown in the backyards of villagers on Hainan Island. And only two hours away from Shanghai, on an island that even Google Maps does not have coordinates for, we found a place where cows eat grass and roam free under the blue sky. We also work hard on logistics. We deliver our customers' orders in as fast as three hours on electric vehicles, and we use biodegradable, reusable boxes to minimize our environmental footprint.
今天，我们销售超过240种产品 这些产品来自57个当地的农民和农场 在我们努力寻找了一年以后 我们终于在海南岛一个村民的后院里 找到了纯天然无污染的香蕉 距离上海两个小时的地方 有一个连谷歌地图都没有标识的小岛上 我们找到了吃着天然牧草 生活得无忧无虑的奶牛 我们也致力于发展物流网络 在最快三小时内我们就可以送货上门 并且用的还是纯电动的交通工具 我们使用的包装盒都是可降解可回收的材料 以此来降低我们的碳排放足迹
I have no doubt that our offerings will continue to grow, but it will take time, and I know a lot more people are needed to shape the future of good food. So last year, I founded China's first food tech accelerator and VC platform to help start-ups to shape the future of good food the way they want, be that through using edible insects as a more sustainable source of protein or using essential oils to keep food fresh for longer.
我坚信我们这个产业可以一直成长下去 虽然可能要花费很多时间 还要花费更多的人力物力 所以去年我成立了中国第一个食品科技加速交流论坛 来帮助新兴企业 用他们的方式改变中国的食物现状 无论是使用可食用的昆虫作为优质蛋白质来源 还是使用精油来保持食物新鲜
So, you may still ask: Why are you trying to build a sustainable food system by driving a patient movement in a country where it's almost a crime to take it slow? Because, for me, the real secret to success is patience -- a mindful kind of patience that requires knowing how to act while waiting, the kind of patience I learned with my grandmother's magic box. After all, we do not inherit the earth from our ancestors. We borrow it from our children.
那么你可能会问了 你所做的关于可持续食物的发展 用的怎么是“耐心”的进行方式 特别是在中国这样一个慢慢做几乎是种罪过的国家 因为对于我来说 成功的秘诀就在于耐心 这种有意识的耐心 教会我们如何在耐心等待的同时作出行动 我通过我外祖母的魔法盒子学会的这种耐心 毕竟，地球并不是我们继承的祖先遗产 而是从我们的后代借来的
Thank you.
谢谢大家
(Applause)
（掌声）