Good evening, everyone.
﻿各位晚上好。
I am from Japan, so I'd like to start with a story about Japanese fishing villages. In the past, every fisherman was tempted to catch as many as fish as possible, but if everybody did that, the fish, common shared resource in the community, would disappear. The result would be hardship and poverty for everyone. This happened in some cases, but it did not happen in other cases. In these communities, the fishermen developed a kind of social contract that told each one of them to hold back a bit to prevent overfishing. The fisherman would keep an eye on each other. There would be a penalty if you were caught cheating. But once the benefit of a social contract became clear to everyone, the incentive to cheat dramatically dropped.
我来自日本， 在此我想先跟大家分享 一个日本渔村的故事。 过去，每个渔民都渴望 捕到的鱼越多越好， 但是如果所有人都这么做的话， 作为社群共享资源的 鱼类资源便会消失。 所有人将面临随之而来的 艰难困苦的日子。 这种情况时有发生， 但是也会出现截然不同的境况。 在这些村落里， 渔民建立起了某种社会契约， 告诉大家捕鱼的时候得 悠着点，避免过度捕获。 渔民之间互相监督。 一旦被抓到违规，就要面临罚款。 可是当大家一旦体会 这个社会契约的好处， 渔民的违规操作就急剧减少。
We find the same story around the world. This is how villagers in medieval Europe managed pasture and forests. This is how communities in Asia managed water, and this is how indigenous peoples in the Amazon managed wildlife. These communities realized they relied on a finite, shared resource. They developed rules and practices on how to manage those resources, and they changed their behavior so that they could continue to rely on those shared resources tomorrow by not overfishing, not overgrazing, not polluting or depleting water streams today.
这样类似的故事在 世界其他地方都有发生。 就如中世纪欧洲的村民 如何管理牧场与森林。 就如亚洲的村落如何管理水资源， 以及亚马逊那些聪明的 原住民如何管理野生动物那样。 这些群体明白到他们都 依赖有限且共享的资源。 他们建立起规则并用 实践来管理这些资源， 并改变自己的行为， 不过度捕捞，不过度放牧， 不污染或者 耗竭水资源， 如此一来，日后便能继续 依赖于这些共享资源，
This is a story of the commons, and also how to avoid the so-called tragedy of the commons. But this is also a story of an economy that was mainly local, where everybody had a very strong sense of belonging.
这是一个有关“公共资源”的故事， 关于如何避免所谓的 “公地悲剧”的故事。 但同时也是一个有关经济体的故事， 主要是本地经济体， 在这样的经济体里 每个人都有强烈的归属感。
Our economies are no longer local. When we moved away from being local, we started to lose our connection to the commons. We carried economic objectives, goals and systems beyond the local, but we did not carry the notion of taking care of the commons.
我们的经济体不再局限于本地。 当我们从本地迁移出去， 我们渐渐失去了与公共资源的联系。 我们实现了超越本地之外的 经济目的，目标，系统， 但我们却未有过 维护公共资源的概念。
So our oceans, forests, once very close to us as our local commons, moved very far away from us. So today, we pump millions of tons of greenhouse gases into the air, we dump plastics, fertilizers and industrial waste into the rivers and oceans, and we cut down forests that absorb CO2. We make the wild biodiversity much more fragile. We seem to have totally forgotten that there is such a thing as global commons: air, water, forests and biodiversity.
以至于我们的海洋，森林， 那些从前与我们 关系紧密的本地公共资源 与我们越来越疏远。 如今，我们不断向空气里 排放数以百万吨的温室气体， 我们倾倒塑料，农药和工业废品 到河流和海洋里去， 砍伐吸收二氧化碳的森林。 我们使得野生生物 多样性变得更加脆弱。 我们似乎已经完全忘了 有一种被称为 全球公共资源的东西： 空气，水，森林和生物多样性。
Now, it is modern science that reminds us how vital the global commons are. In 2009, a group of scientists proposed how to assess the health of the global commons. They defined nine planetary boundaries vital to our survival, then they measured how far we could go before we cross over the tipping points or thresholds that would lead us to the irreversible or even catastrophic change.
而现在，这是一门现代科学， 提醒我们全球公共资源是多么重要。 在2009年，一群科学家倡议 如何评估全球公共资源的健康。 他们定义了对我们的生存 至关重要的九大环境安全界限， 然后他们测算我们到底 能去到什么程度， 便会触碰到临界点或阈值， 致使我们走向无法挽回， 甚至是毁天灭地的变化。
This is where we were in the 1950s. We broadly remained within safe operating space, marked by the green line. But look at where we are now. We have crossed four of those boundaries, and we will be crossing others in the future.
图上显示的是我们 在20世纪50年代。 我们处于十分宽裕的 安全活动范围中， 以绿线为标志。 但是看看我们现在的处境。 我们已经超越了其中四大界限， 未来我们也将跨越其他界限。
How did we end up in this situation? Well, my personal story may tell us something. Five years ago, I was appointed as CEO of the GEF, Global Environment Facility, but I am not a conservationist or an environmental activist. I am an economist, and for the last 30 years, I had worked for public finance in my home country and around the world. I can tell you one thing for sure: during these 30 years, the notion of the global commons never crossed my mind. I didn't have a single conversation about the global commons with my colleagues. This tells me that the notion of the global commons was not really entering into the big money decisions like state budgets or investment plans.
我们是怎样走到今天这一步的呢？ 我想，从我的个人经历 也许能看出点端倪。 五年前我被委任 全球环境基金，GEF的CEO一职， 但是我并不是一个保守党， 或者一个环境活动家。 我是一名经济学者， 在过去的30年中， 我在日本以及世界各地 从事公共财政工作。 我可以肯定的一件事是： 在这30年中， 全球公共资源的概念 从未在我的脑海浮现过。 我从未与同事进行过任何一次 有关全球公共资源的讨论。 这就告诉我全球公共资源这个概念， 并未真正地进入重大的金钱决策中， 比如国家预算或投资计划。
And I'm wondering, why do we have this sheer ignorance about the global commons, including me, myself? One possible explanation might be that until recently, it didn't really matter too much. Even if we mess up some part of the environment, we were not fundamentally changing the functions of the earth system. The global commons had still enough capacity to take the punches we gave them. In fact, the fish were still plentiful, the fields for grazing were still vast. Our mistake was to assume that the capacity of the earth for self-repair had no limits. It does have limits. The message from the science is very clear: we humans have become an overwhelming force to determine the future living conditions on earth, and what's more, we are running out of time. If we don't act on them, we will be losing the global commons. It's only our generation who are able to preserve it -- preserve the commons as we know them. Now is the time we start managing the global commons as our parents or our grandparents managed their local commons.
同时我也在想，为什么 我们会对全球公共资源 如此无知浅薄， 包括我自己？ 一个可能的解释是 这个问题一直得不到 重视，直到最近。 尽管我们搞砸了环境的一部分， 这还不至于从根本上引起 地球系统的功能紊乱。 全球公共资源仍然拥有庞大的容量 接受我们每一次的冲击。 事实上，鱼依然很多， 可供放牧的土地依然广阔。 但是我们的错误在于认为 地球的自我修复能力 是无止境的。 但是它是有极限的。 科学所传递的信息已经很清晰： 我们人类已经成为一股巨大的力量， 能左右地球未来的居住条件， 而且我们的时间已经不多了。 如果我们现在不行动， 我们将渐渐失去全球公共资源。 只有我们这一代人能够保护它—— 保护这些我们熟悉的公有物。 现在正是我们开始管理 全球公共资源的时候， 就如我们的父辈或祖辈 管理他们的本地公共资源那样。
The first thing we need to do is to simply recognize that we do have the global commons and they are very, very important. Then we need to build the stewardship of the global commons into all of our thinking, our business, our economy, our policy-making -- in all of our actions. We need to recreate the social contract of the fishing villages on the global scale.
我们所需要做的第一件事 很简单，就是认识到我们 这些全球公共资源确实存在， 以及它们非常非常的重要。 接着我们需要将 全球公共财产的管理职责， 将此融入到我们的思维， 融入到我们的商业，我们的经济， 融入到我们的政策制定—— 融入到我们所有的行动当中。 我们需要在全球范围内 重新建立起渔村里的 那种社会契约。
But what does it mean in practice? Where to start with? I see there are four key economic systems that fundamentally need to change. First, we need to change our cities. By 2050, two thirds of our population will live in cities. We need green cities. Second, we need to change our energy system. The world economy must sharply decarbonize, essentially in one generation. Third, we need to change our production-consumption system. We need to break away from current take-make-waste consumption patterns. And finally, we need to change our food system, what to eat and how to produce it. And all of those four systems are putting enormous pressure on the global commons, and it's also very difficult to flip them. They are extremely complex, with many decision-makers, actors involved.
但是到底要如何实践呢？ 从什么时候开始？ 我认为有四个关键的经济系统 需要从根本上发生改变。 第一，我们需要改变我们的城市。 到2050年，我们三分之二的 人口将会在城市居住。 我们需要绿色城市。 第二，我们需要改变我们的能源系统。 全球经济必须快速去碳化， 尤其需要在一代人的时间里完成。 第三，我们需要改变 我们的生产消费系统。 我们需要从当前的“索取-生产-废弃”的 消费模式中脱离出来。 最后，我们需要改变 我们的食物系统， 吃什么，以及如何生产食物。 上述的这四大系统 正给全球公共资源施加巨大的压力， 并且扭转这些系统是十分困难的。 它们异常复杂， 这牵扯到许多决策人，活动者。
Let's take the example of the food system. Food production is currently responsible for one quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. It is also a main user of the world's water resources. In fact, 70 percent of today's water is used to grow crops. Vast areas of tropical forest are used for agriculture. This deforestation drives extinction. In fact, we are losing species 1,000 times faster than the natural rate. And on top of all of that bad news, one third of food produced today globally is not eaten. It's wasted.
让我们以食物系统为例。 食品生产目前占据 温室气体排放量的四分之一， 同时也是世界用水大户。 事实上，今天70%的水 被用来灌溉农作物。 大面积的热带森林区被转作农耕地。 去森林化导致了物种灭绝。 事实上，人为导致的 物种灭绝速度比自然灭绝 快1000倍。 这还不是最坏的消息， 当今全球生产的食物有三分之一 从未被食用， 而是白白浪费掉了。
But there is the good news, good signs. Coalitions of stakeholders are now coming together to try to transform the food system with one shared goal: how to produce enough healthy food for everyone, at the same time, to try to cut, to sharply reduce, the footprint from the food system on the global commons.
但是好消息还是有的， 有一些好的征兆。 利益相关者结成联盟， 正携手努力改变食物系统， 只为实现同一个目标： 如何同时为每个人生产足够的 健康食物， 试着去减少，大幅降低 食物系统在全球公共资源上 留下的伤害。
I had an opportunity to fly over the Indonesian island of Sumatra, and I saw with my own eyes the massive deforestation to make room for palm oil plantations. By the way, palm oil is included in thousands of food products we eat every day. The global demand for palm oil is just increasing. In Sumatra, I met smallholder farmers who need to make a day-to-day living from growing oil palm. I met global food companies, financial institutions and local government officials. All of them told me that they can't make the change by themselves, and only by working together under a kind of new contract, or a new practice, do they have a chance to protect tropical forests. So it's so encouraging to see, at least for the last few years, this new coalition among these committed actors along the supply chain come together to try to transform the food system. In fact, what they are trying to do is to create a new kind of social contract to manage the global commons.
我曾经有个机会 飞过印度尼西亚的Sumatra群岛， 我亲眼看见 大面积的森林被砍伐， 那片土地被用作棕榈油种植。 随便一提，我们日常食用的 成千上万种食品当中都含有 棕榈油。 全球的棕榈油需求正在不断上升。 在Sumatra，我遇见了 一些小型种植场的庄园主， 他们的日常生活 就依赖于种植油棕榈。 我还访问了国际食品公司， 金融机构， 以及当地政府的工作人员。 所有人都告诉我他们不可能 凭借一己之力改变这一切， 只有在某种新的契约之下同心协力， 或在新的实践的约束之下， 他们才有保护热带森林的机会。 至少在过去几年，我们目睹了 这样令人鼓舞的光景， 在供应链中这些充满责任感的 活跃人士结成同盟 携手尝试改变食物系统。 事实上，他们正努力 创造一个新型的社会契约 来管理全球公共资源。
All changes start at home, at your place and at my place. At GEF, Global Environment Facility, we have now a new strategy, and we put the global commons at its center. I hope we won't be the only ones. If everybody stays on the sidelines, waiting for others to step in, the global commons will continue to deteriorate, and everybody will be much worse off. We need to save ourselves from the tragedy of the commons.
一切改变始于家门， 从你的地方，从我的地方开始。 在全球环境基金GEF， 我们现在有一个新的策略， 以全球公共资源为中心。 我希望我们不是孤军奋战， 如果所有人袖手旁观， 等着其他人行动， 那么全球公共资源将继续退化， 所有人的处境终将更困难。 我们需要从“公地悲剧”中拯救自己。
So, I invite all of you to embrace the global commons. Please do remember that global commons do exist and are waiting for your stewardship.
因此，我现在邀请你们 一起拥抱全球公共资源。 请谨记全球公共资源确实存在， 正等待你们各司其职。
We all share one planet in common. We breathe the same air, we drink the same water, we depend on the same oceans, forests, and biodiversity. There is no space left on earth for egoism. The global commons must be kept within their safe operating space, and we can only do it together.
我们所有人都在同一个星球上。 我们呼吸同样的空气， 喝同样的水， 我们依赖于同样的海洋， 森林和生物多样性。 在这个地球上，盲目自大 毫无立足之地。 全球公共资源必须在它们 安全的活动空间中被好好保护， 而我们必须同心协力来实现。
Thank you so much.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
（掌声）