What happens when technology knows more about us than we do? A computer now can detect our slightest facial microexpressions and be able to tell the difference between a real smile and a fake one. That's only the beginning. Technology has become incredibly intelligent and already knows a lot about our internal states. And whether we like it or not, we already are sharing parts of our inner lives that's out of our control. That seems like a problem, because a lot of us like to keep what's going on inside from what people actually see. We want to have agency over what we share and what we don't. We all like to have a poker face.
﻿当科技比我们还了解我们自己，会发生什么？ 目前的电脑已经可以解读 我们最精细的微表情， 能够区分假笑和真笑。 这仅仅只是开始。 科技已经变得极度智能， 而且已经知道很多我们的内心状态。 不管喜欢与否， 我们已经在分享我们的一部分私生活了， 但这一过程却不受我们控制。 这似乎是个麻烦， 因为很多人只想展示自己的表面， 而隐藏自己的内心。 我们希望对我们愿意和不愿意 分享的东西拥有控制权。 我们都喜欢有一张不露声色的脸。
But I'm here to tell you that I think that's a thing of the past. And while that might sound scary, it's not necessarily a bad thing. I've spent a lot of time studying the circuits in the brain that create the unique perceptual realities that we each have. And now I bring that together with the capabilities of current technology to create new technology that does make us better, feel more, connect more. And I believe to do that, we have to be OK losing some of our agency.
但我来是想告诉你，这个想法已经过时了。 虽然听起来可怕，但这不一定是坏事。 我花了很多时间研究那些 创造出我们感官世界的脑回路。 现在我将这些研究成果 和当前的科技水平结合在一起， 来创造出一种全新的科技，帮助扩展 我们的感受，和建立连接的能力。 而且我相信要实现这一点， 我们需要接受失去部分控制力的后果。
With some animals, it's really amazing, and we get to see into their internal experiences. We get this upfront look at the mechanistic interaction between how they respond to the world around them and the state of their biological systems. This is where evolutionary pressures like eating, mating and making sure we don't get eaten drive deterministic behavioral responses to information in the world. And we get to see into this window, into their internal states and their biological experiences. It's really pretty cool. Now, stay with me for a moment -- I'm a violinist, not a singer. But the spider's already given me a critical review.
动物实验的研究结果很令人惊叹， 我们可以看到它们的内在感受。 我们得以全面了解 它们回应世界的方式， 以及它们的生物系统状态。 在这里，像进食，求偶 以及保护自己不被吃掉 这些进化压力 驱使着决定性的行为， 对周遭世界的信息进行回应。 我们可以通过这个窗口， 看到它们的内心状态与生理感受。 这非常有意思。 现在，认真听——虽然我 不是歌手，我是拉小提琴的。 但这个蜘蛛已经给了我批判性的建议。
(Video) (Singing in a low pitch)
（视频）（低音歌唱）
(Singing in a middle pitch)
（音调升高）
(Singing in a high pitch)
（高音歌唱）
(Singing in a low pitch)
（低音歌唱）
(Singing in a middle pitch)
（音调升高）
(Singing in a high pitch)
（高音歌唱）
(Laughter)
(笑声 )
Poppy Crum: It turns out, some spiders tune their webs like violins to resonate with certain sounds. And likely, the harmonics of my voice as it went higher coupled with how loud I was singing recreated either the predatory call of an echolocating bat or a bird, and the spider did what it should. It predictively told me to bug off. I love this. The spider's responding to its external world in a way that we get to see and know what's happening to its internal world. Biology is controlling the spider's response; it's wearing its internal state on its sleeve.
波比 · 克拉姆：事实上，很多蜘蛛 会把它们的网调得像小提琴一样， 来和某些声音产生共振。 相似的，当我的声调随着 音量变大而提高时， 就重造出了蝙蝠或鸟类 等捕食者靠近的警告， 然后蜘蛛做出了本能的反应。 它在警告我走开。 我很喜欢这个现象。 蜘蛛在对外在世界进行回应， 在某种程度上，我们可以借此看见 并了解它内心世界的样子。 生物学控制着蜘蛛的回应； 它的内心状态体现了出来。
But us, humans -- we're different. We like to think we have cognitive control over what people see, know and understand about our internal states -- our emotions, our insecurities, our bluffs, our trials and tribulations -- and how we respond. We get to have our poker face.
但是我们，人类， 我们不一样。 我们希望可以控制他人看到， 认识以及理解到的 我们的内心状态—— 我们的情感，不安全感， 我们的虚张声势，我们的磨难， 以及我们回应的方式。 我们必须面不改色。
Or maybe we don't. Try this with me. Your eye responds to how hard your brain is working. The response you're about to see is driven entirely by mental effort and has nothing to do with changes in lighting. We know this from neuroscience. I promise, your eyes are doing the same thing as the subject in our lab, whether you want them to or not. At first, you'll hear some voices. Try and understand them and keep watching the eye in front of you. It's going to be hard at first, one should drop out, and it should get really easy. You're going to see the change in effort in the diameter of the pupil.
或者也许，我们不用这样做。 和我一起试试。 你的眼睛会反映你的用脑情况。 你即将看到的反应 完全是由心理影响的， 与光线的改变毫无关系。 我们从神经学了解到这一信息。 我保证，你们的眼睛会发生 与我们实验室的受试者一样的变化， 无论你想不想这么做。 最初，你会听到一些声音。 试着理解它们，并注视着你面前的眼睛。 一上来可能很难。 一个声音消失后，就会简单很多。 你们会看到瞳孔的直径发生了改变。
(Video) (Two overlapping voices talking)
（视频）（两个重叠的声音在讲话）
(Single voice) Intelligent technology depends on personal data.
（一个声音在说话） 智能科技取决于个人数据。
(Two overlapping voices talking)
（两个重叠的声音在讲话）
(Single voice) Intelligent technology depends on personal data.
（一个声音在说话） 智能科技取决于个人数据。
PC: Your pupil doesn't lie. Your eye gives away your poker face. When your brain's having to work harder, your autonomic nervous system drives your pupil to dilate. When it's not, it contracts. When I take away one of the voices, the cognitive effort to understand the talkers gets a lot easier. I could have put the two voices in different spatial locations, I could have made one louder. You would have seen the same thing. We might think we have more agency over the reveal of our internal state than that spider, but maybe we don't.
波比 · 克拉姆： 你的瞳孔不会撒谎。 你的眼睛泄露了你真实的心理活动。 当你的大脑需要更快地运转时， 自动神经系统会导致瞳孔扩张， 反过来则会导致收缩。 当我移除其中任何一个声道时， 用来理解说话者的认知努力 变得轻松很多。 我可以把两个声音放在不同位置， 或把其中一个调大， 你会看到同样的结果。 我们或许认为，我们掌控展现 自己内心情况的能力 比蜘蛛更强， 但或许并不是这样。
Today's technology is starting to make it really easy to see the signals and tells that give us away. The amalgamation of sensors paired with machine learning on us, around us and in our environments, is a lot more than cameras and microphones tracking our external actions.
现在的科技水平使得 识别这些信号然后暴露 我们自己变得非常容易。 在我们身上，在我们四周与环境中 与机器学习相结合的传感器， 远不止监控着我们外在 动作的摄像头与麦克风。
Our bodies radiate our stories from changes in the temperature of our physiology. We can look at these as infrared thermal images showing up behind me, where reds are hotter and blues are cooler. The dynamic signature of our thermal response gives away our changes in stress, how hard our brain is working, whether we're paying attention and engaged in the conversation we might be having and even whether we're experiencing a picture of fire as if it were real. We can actually see people give off heat on their cheeks in response to an image of flame.
我们的身体通过生理温度的改变 辐射着我们的故事。 看一下我背后的 这些红外图像， 红色代表温度高，蓝色代表温度低。 我们热响应的动态信号 暴露了我们的压力变化， 大脑的负荷程度， 我们是否在关注 并参与我们可能正在进行的对话， 甚至我们是否如实地 在感受一张火焰的图片。 我们可以看见人们脸颊的温度上升， 这是对火焰图片做出的回应。
But aside from giving away our poker bluffs, what if dimensions of data from someone's thermal response gave away a glow of interpersonal interest? Tracking the honesty of feelings in someone's thermal image might be a new part of how we fall in love and see attraction. Our technology can listen, develop insights and make predictions about our mental and physical health just by analyzing the timing dynamics of our speech and language picked up by microphones. Groups have shown that changes in the statistics of our language paired with machine learning can predict the likelihood someone will develop psychosis.
但除了泄露我们的情绪伪装， 如果某人的热响应数据 还暴露了其人际交往的兴趣呢？ 追踪某人热学图像里的 真挚情感，或许会为理解 我们如何坠入爱河 或被吸引提供新的信息。 仅仅通过分析麦克风接收的 关于我们话语和语言的时序动态， 我们的科技就可以倾听，形成理解， 并对我们的心理和生理健康 做出预测。 小组研究表明，我们语言中的变化 与机器学习相结合， 可以预测某人患上精神病的几率。
I'm going to take it a step further and look at linguistic changes and changes in our voice that show up with a lot of different conditions. Dementia, diabetes can alter the spectral coloration of our voice. Changes in our language associated with Alzheimer's can sometimes show up more than 10 years before clinical diagnosis. What we say and how we say it tells a much richer story than we used to think. And devices we already have in our homes could, if we let them, give us invaluable insight back. The chemical composition of our breath gives away our feelings. There's a dynamic mixture of acetone, isoprene and carbon dioxide that changes when our heart speeds up, when our muscles tense, and all without any obvious change in our behaviors.
我会更近一步， 去观察我们声音中的 语言变化与音调变化， 它们展现出了许多不同的状况。 痴呆，糖尿病会改变 我们声音中的光谱颜色， 与阿尔茨海默症关联的言语变化 有时在临床诊断十年前就会出现。 我们说什么以及说话的方式， 其实比我们曾经以为的 透露了更多信息。 而且只要我们允许，我们家里的设施 也可以给我们珍贵的反馈。 我们呼吸中的化学构成 能够暴露我们的情感。 丙酮，异戊二烯以及 二氧化碳的动态混合物 会随我们心率的提升或肌肉的 紧张状态而改变， 尽管我们在行为上并没有明显变化。
Alright, I want you to watch this clip with me. Some things might be going on on the side screens, but try and focus on the image in the front and the man at the window.
好了，我想让你们 和我一起看看这个片段。 两侧的屏幕上可能会出现一些东西， 但尝试关注中间的图像 和窗边的人。
(Eerie music)
（阴森的音乐）
(Woman screams)
(女人的尖叫)
PC: Sorry about that. I needed to get a reaction.
波比 · 克拉姆：不好意思， 我需要得到一个反应。
(Laughter)
(笑声)
I'm actually tracking the carbon dioxide you exhale in the room right now. We've installed tubes throughout the theater, lower to the ground, because CO2 is heavier than air. But they're connected to a device in the back that lets us measure, in real time, with high precision, the continuous differential concentration of CO2. The clouds on the sides are actually the real-time data visualization of the density of our CO2. You might still see a patch of red on the screen, because we're showing increases with larger colored clouds, larger colored areas of red. And that's the point where a lot of us jumped. It's our collective suspense driving a change in carbon dioxide. Alright, now, watch this with me one more time.
事实上，我正在检测 你们在房间中呼出的二氧化碳。 我们在场馆内装了很多管道， 在贴近地面的位置， 因为二氧化碳比氧气重。 它们连接着后台的一个设备， 允许我们实时并高精准度地测量 二氧化碳浓度的持续变化。 两边的云朵实际上是二氧化碳浓度的 可视数据。 你们或许还会看到屏幕上的一片红色， 因为我们正在展示大型有色云朵的增加， 红色的部分变得更多。 这是我们被吓到的时刻。 我们对将要发生什么的共同期待 导致了二氧化碳的变化。 好了，我们再看一遍。
(Cheerful music)
（轻松愉悦的音乐）
(Woman laughs)
（女人的笑声）
PC: You knew it was coming. But it's a lot different when we changed the creator's intent. Changing the music and the sound effects completely alter the emotional impact of that scene. And we can see it in our breath. Suspense, fear, joy all show up as reproducible, visually identifiable moments. We broadcast a chemical signature of our emotions. It is the end of the poker face.
波比 · 克拉姆： 你们已经知道会发生什么了。 当我们改变制作者的意图时， 这就变得很不一样。 改变音乐与声效 完全改变了那个镜头的情感冲击。 这一点可以在我们的呼吸中观察到。 悬念，恐惧，快乐， 全都是可重现的，视觉上可见的。 我们在“广播”我们情感的化学信号。 这意味着“扑克脸”的终结。
Our spaces, our technology will know what we're feeling. We will know more about each other than we ever have. We get a chance to reach in and connect to the experience and sentiments that are fundamental to us as humans in our senses, emotionally and socially. I believe it is the era of the empath. And we are enabling the capabilities that true technological partners can bring to how we connect with each other and with our technology. If we recognize the power of becoming technological empaths, we get this opportunity where technology can help us bridge the emotional and cognitive divide. And in that way, we get to change how we tell our stories. We can enable a better future for technologies like augmented reality to extend our own agency and connect us at a much deeper level.
我们的空间和科技将能够了解我们的感受。 我们会远比以前更了解彼此。 我们有机会去触碰并连接那些 在我们的感官，情感与社交中 作为人类基础的体验与情绪。 我相信这是移情的时代。 我们正在实现真正的科技伴侣所带来的 如何通过科技让彼此相连的各种能力。 如果我们认识到了 成为科技移情者的能力， 就将得到这个机会， 让科技帮助我们把情感 与认知分歧联系起来。 在这种方式下，我们就可以 改变讲故事的方式。 我们可以创造一个拥有 像现实增强技术的未来， 去延伸我们的媒介，并让我们 在更深的层面进行连接。
Imagine a high school counselor being able to realize that an outwardly cheery student really was having a deeply hard time, where reaching out can make a crucial, positive difference. Or authorities, being able to know the difference between someone having a mental health crisis and a different type of aggression, and responding accordingly. Or an artist, knowing the direct impact of their work. Leo Tolstoy defined his perspective of art by whether what the creator intended was experienced by the person on the other end. Today's artists can know what we're feeling. But regardless of whether it's art or human connection, today's technologies will know and can know what we're experiencing on the other side, and this means we can be closer and more authentic.
想象一位高中学生顾问，能够了解 一个表面很快乐的学生实际上处境艰难， 这样一来，交流就可以 促成一个显著，积极的改变。 我们的权威机构，能够区别 一个人是存在心理健康危机， 还是怀有一种不同的侵略行为， 并对此做出相应的回应。 或者让艺术家可以了解 他们艺术作品的直接影响。 列夫 · 托尔斯泰将他对艺术的理解定义为 创造者的意图 是否被观看者感受到。 如今的艺术家可以了解我们的感受。 但无论是艺术还是人类连接， 如今的科技都将，且能够知道 我们在另一端的感受。 这意味着我们彼此可以更接近和更真实。
But I realize a lot of us have a really hard time with the idea of sharing our data, and especially the idea that people know things about us that we didn't actively choose to share. Anytime we talk to someone, look at someone or choose not to look, data is exchanged, given away, that people use to learn, make decisions about their lives and about ours.
不过，我发现我们很多人不喜欢 分享我们的数据， 尤其当知道人们会了解那些 我们没有主动选择分享的数据。 每当我们与别人说话， 看着某人， 或选择避开目光接触时， 数据都会被交换，被分享， 被人们用于学习， 对他们以及我们的生活做出决定。
I'm not looking to create a world where our inner lives are ripped open and our personal data and our privacy given away to people and entities where we don't want to see it go. But I am looking to create a world where we can care about each other more effectively, we can know more about when someone is feeling something that we ought to pay attention to. And we can have richer experiences from our technology.
我并不想创造一个人们的 内心生活完全暴露的世界， 我们的数据和隐私都被暴露给 给我们不愿分享的人和实体。 我想创造的， 是一个我们可以更好地关心彼此， 更加了解何时有人产生了某种感觉， 而这种感觉也是我们应该关注的。 我们可以利用科技获得更丰富的经验。
Any technology can be used for good or bad. Transparency to engagement and effective regulation are absolutely critical to building the trust for any of this. But the benefits that "empathetic technology" can bring to our lives are worth solving the problems that make us uncomfortable. And if we don't, there are too many opportunities and feelings we're going to be missing out on.
任何科技都像一面双刃剑。 参与的透明和有效的监管 对在其中建立信任非常重要。 但是 "技术移情" 可以为我们带来的好处， 值得我们去解决那些 让我们感到不舒服的问题。 而且如果不这么做，我们就将错过 太多的机会与感受。
Thank you.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
(掌声)