Architecture is amazing, for sure. It's amazing because it's art. But you know, it's a very funny kind of art. It's an art at the frontier between art and science. It's fed by ... by real life, every day. It's driven by force of necessity. Quite amazing, quite amazing. And the life of the architect is also amazing.
﻿毫无疑问，建筑学是很令人惊叹的。 其原因在于，它是一门艺术。 不过这是一类非常有趣的艺术， 交织了艺术和科学的前沿艺术。 它源自于… 真实的常日生活。 它受到了必要性的驱使。 非常，非常惊艳。 建筑师的生活一样很精彩。
You know, as an architect, at 10 o’clock in the morning, you need to be a poet, for sure. But at 11, you must become a humanist, otherwise you'd lose your direction. And at noon, you absolutely need to be a builder. You need to be able to make a building, because architecture, at the end, is the art of making buildings. Architecture is the art of making shelter for human beings. Period. And this is not easy at all. It's amazing.
要知道，作为一个建筑师， 早上十点的时候， 你得当一个诗人。 但是十一点的时候， 你又必须充满人文情怀， 否则你会变得迷茫。 但是下午的时候， 你又要做一个建筑工人。 你需要能够建造楼房。 因为建筑学，归根结底 是建筑的艺术。 建筑学是为人们建造庇护所的艺术。 目标明确。 这一点也不容易实现。 会有很惊人的效果。
Look at this. Here we are in London, at the top of the Shard of Glass. This is a building we completed a few years ago. Those people are well-trained workers, and they are assembling the top piece of the tower. Well, they look like rock climbers. They are. I mean, they are defying the force of gravity, like building does, by the way. We got 30 of those people -- actually, on that site, we got more than 1,400 people, coming from 60 different nationalities. You know, this is a miracle. It's a miracle. To put together 1,400 people, coming from such different places, is a miracle. Sites are miracles. This is another one.
看看这个。 我们在伦敦， 在碎片大厦的顶端。 这是我们几年前完成的一个项目。 这些是受过培训的工人， 在组装塔的最高层。 他们看起来就像是攀岩者。 他们的确是。 我的意思是， 他们在与重力做斗争， 就像建筑物那样。 我们有30个这样的人—— 事实上，施工现场有超过1400个人， 来自60个国家。 这是个奇迹，很不可思议。 把1400个来自不同国家的人， 组合在一起，简直是奇迹。 施工现场也很让人惊叹。 这是另一个。
Let's talk about construction. Adventure, it's adventure in real life, not adventure in spirit. This guy there is a deepwater diver. From rock climbers to deepwater divers. This is in Berlin. After the fall of the Wall in '89, we built this building, connecting East Berlin to West Berlin, in Potsdamer Platz. We got on that project almost 5,000 people. Almost 5,000 people. And this is another site in Japan, building the Kansai Airport. Again, all the rock climbers, Japanese ones. You know, making buildings together is the best way to create a sense of cooperation. The sense of pride -- pride is essential.
我们来谈一谈施工。 冒险，这是真实生活中的冒险， 不是精神上的。 这个人是深水潜水员。 从攀岩者到深水潜水员。 这是柏林。 在1989年柏林墙倒塌之后， 我们建了这个建筑， 连接了东柏林和西柏林， 它位于波坦兹广场。 有近5000人参与了这个项目。 差不多五千人。 这是另一个在日本的施工现场， 位于关西机场。 所有的攀岩者都是日本人。 一起打造建筑物 是建立合作的最好方式。 荣誉感，荣誉是核心。
But, you know, construction, of course, is one of the reasons why architecture is amazing. But there is another one, that is maybe even more amazing. Because architecture is the art of making shelter for communities, not just for individuals -- communities and society at large. And society is never the same. The world keeps changing. And changes are difficult to swallow by people. And architecture is a mirror of those changes. Architecture is the built expression of those changes. So, this is why it is so difficult, because those changes create adventure. They create adventure, and architecture is adventure.
不过理所当然的，施工也是 为什么建筑学 令人惊叹的原因之一。 还有另一个理由，甚至更加惊艳。 因为建筑学是艺术， 给社会创造庇护所的艺术。 并不为个人—— 它造福于整个社区和社会。 社会群体的构成各不相同。 这世界一直在变化。 人们是很难理解这种改变的。 而建筑就是这些变迁的镜子。 建筑是这些变迁的表现。 所以，这就是为什么它复杂高深， 因为这些改变创造了冒险。 它们本身就是一次次冒险， 然后它们又创造了冒险。
This is the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris, a long time ago. That was back in time, '77. This was a spaceship landing in the middle of Paris. Together with my friend in adventure, Richard Rogers, we were, at the time, young bad boys. Young, bad boys. (Laughter) It was really only a few years after May '68. So it was a rebellion, pure rebellion. The idea was to make the proof that cultural buildings should not be intimidating. They should create a sense of curiosity. This is the way to create a cultural place. Curiosity is the beginning of a cultural attitude.
这是位于巴黎的乔治 · 蓬皮杜中心， 很多年前的图片。 大概拍摄于1977年。 这是在巴黎的中心的一个太空船。 我和我的朋友，理查德 · 罗杰斯， 我们那时候还是不良少年。 年轻的混混。 （笑) 那是在1968年5月的几年后。 发生了暴动，纯粹的暴动。 其背后的动机是为了证明 文化建筑不应该令人生畏。 它们应该激发一种好奇心。 这是一种创建文化场所的方式。 好奇心是文化态度的起源。
And there's a piazza there, you can see that piazza. And a piazza is the beginning of urban life. A piazza is the place where people meet. And they mix experience. And they mix ages. And, you know, in some way, you create the essence of the city. And since then, we made, in the office, so many other places for people.
这里有一个广场。 广场是城市生活的开端。 广场是人们见面的地方。 他们交流着彼此的经历， 打破了年龄的界限。 以某种方式， 你创造了城市的精髓。 从那时起，我们 又设计了很多其他的建筑。
Here, in Rome, is a concert hall. Another place for people. This building inside is actually designed by the sound, you can see. It's flirting with sound. And this is the Kansai Airport, in Japan. To make a building, sometimes you need to make an island, and we made the island. The building is more than one mile long. It looks like an immense glider, landing on the ground.
这里是罗马的一个音乐会大厅。 另一个为大众服务的地方。 这个建筑内实际上 是根据声音设计的。 声音在其中肆意徜徉。 这个是日本的 关西机场。 为了打造一个建筑， 有时你不得不建一座岛， 于是我们就建了这么一座岛。 这个建筑物的长度有一英里多。 它看起来像一个巨大的滑翔机， 降落在地面上。
And this is in San Francisco. Another place for people. This building is the California Academy of Sciences. And we planted on that roof -- thousands and thousands of plants that use the humidity of the air, instead of pumping water from the water table. The roof is a living roof, actually. And this building was made Platinum LEED. The LEED is the system to measure, of course, the sustainability of a building. So this was also a place for people that will stay a long time.
这是旧金山。 另一个为服务大众的场所。 这是加州科学博物馆。 我们在屋顶上种植了植物—— 成千上万的植物吸收空气中的水分， 不需要从下方抽水浇灌。 这个屋顶事实上是有生命的。 这个建筑是符合 LEED白金级认证标准的。 LEED是一个用来衡量 建筑可持续性的系统。 所以这也是一个 为人类服务的地方， 将会持续运营很长时间。
And this is actually New York. This is the new Whitney, in the Meatpacking District in New York. Well, another flying vessel. Another place for people. Here we are in Athens, the Niarchos Foundation. It's a library, it's an open house, a concert hall and a big park. This building is also a Platinum LEED building. This building actually captures the sun's energy with that roof.
这个是在纽约。 这栋建筑是新惠特尼， 在纽约的肉类加工区。 另一个飞船。 另一个人文场所。 现在我们看到的是雅典的 Niarchos基金会。 这是一个图书馆。 它是一个开放性建筑， 有一个音乐厅， 和一个大公园。 这个也是白金级标准的建筑物。 这个建筑通过屋顶 使用太阳能供电。
But, you know, making a building a place for people is good. Making libraries, making concert halls, making universities, making museums is good, because you create a place that's open, accessible. You create a building for a better world, for sure. But there is something else that makes architecture amazing, even more. And this is the fact that architecture doesn't just answer to need and necessity, but also to desires -- yes, desires -- dreams, aspirations. This is what architecture does. Even the most modest hut on earth is not just a roof. It's more than a roof. It's telling a story; it's telling a story about the identity of the people living in that hut. Individuals.
打造以人为本的建筑物是件好事。 建造图书馆，演奏厅， 大学，博物馆都是很好的做法。 因为你建造了开放， 让所有人都能受益的地方。 毫无疑问，你建造房子是 为了让世界变得更好。 但是还有另外一个方面， 使建筑更加美好。 存在这样一个事实， 建筑学不只是为 需要和必要性服务， 还有欲望——是的， 欲望——梦想，愿望。 这就是建筑学的作用。 即使是世界上最小的房子， 也不仅仅是为了遮风挡雨。 它的作用超过了一个屋顶。 它在讲述一个故事； 讲述了曾经住在 那小屋的人的故事。 个人的故事。
Architecture is the art of telling stories. Like this one. In London: the Shard of Glass. Well, this building is the tallest building in Western Europe. It goes up more than 300 meters in the air, to breathe fresh air. The facets of this building are inclined, and they reflect the sky of London, that is never the same. After rain, everything becomes bluish. In the sunny evening, everything is red. It's something that is difficult to explain. It's what we call the soul of a building.
建筑学是讲述故事的艺术。 就像这一个。 伦敦的碎片大厦。 这是西欧最高的建筑物。 它高300多米，在上面 可以呼吸到新鲜的空气。 这座建筑的外观是倾斜的， 外墙会反射伦敦的天空， 景象千变万化。 下过雨后， 一切都变成偏蓝的颜色。 在晴天的下午， 一切都变成红色。 这是一种难以言喻的感觉。 我们把它叫做建筑的灵魂。
On this picture on the left, you have the Menil Collection, used a long time ago. It's a museum. On the right is the Harvard Art Museum. Both those two buildings flirt with light. Light is probably one of the most essential materials in architecture. And this is in Amsterdam. This building is flirting with water. And this is my office, on the sea. Well, this is flirting with work. Actually, we enjoy working there. And that cable car is the little cable car that goes up to there.
这张图片的左侧是menil系列 很久以前所采用的。 这是一个博物馆。 在右边的是哈佛艺术博物馆。 这两个建筑都能和光影巧妙地互动。 光线或许是建筑中 最原始的材料了。 这个建筑位于阿姆斯特丹。 楼体和水面交相辉映。 这个是我的办公室，在海上。 不过它是在和工作调情。 事实上，我们很享受在那里工作。 小缆车把我们带到那上面。
That's "The New York Times" in New York. Well, this is playing with transparency. Again, the sense of light, the sense of transparency. On the left here, you have the Magic Lantern in Japan, in Ginza, in Tokyo. And in the center is a monastery in the forest. This monastery is playing with the silence and the forest. And a museum, a science museum. This is about levitation. And this is in the center of Paris, in the belly of the whale. This is the Pathé Foundation in Paris. All those buildings have something in common: it's that something is searching for desire, for dreams.
这是纽约时报大厦，位于纽约。 透明结构无处不在。 这个建筑再一次体现了 对光线和透明感的运用。 在左边的图片，是“魔术灯”玻璃外墙， 在日本东京的银座。 中间的是一座森林里的寺院。 寺院，寂静，森林，三者和谐共处。 （这张图是）一座博物馆， 科学博物馆。 主题是关于磁悬浮。 这个建筑是巴黎的中心， 在鲸鱼的肚子里。 这是法国的Pathé基金会。 这所有的建筑物都有一个共同点： 一种追求欲望， 追求梦想的感觉。
And that's me.
那个人是我。
(Laughter)
（笑）
Well, it's me on my sailing boat. Flirting with breeze. Well, there's not a very good reason to show you this picture.
在我的帆船上。 和海风调情。 好吧我承认，这并不是 一个展示照片的好借口。
(Laughter)
（笑）
I'm trying, I'm trying.
我尽力了。
You know, one thing is clear: I love sailing, for sure. I actually also love designing sailing boats. But I love sailing, because sailing is associated with slowness. And ... and silence. And the sense of suspension. And there is another thing that this picture says. It says that I'm Italian.
不过很明显， 我喜欢扬帆出海。 我实际上也爱设计帆船。 我喜欢帆船， 因为帆船和慢节奏有着联系， 以及… 以及沉默。 悬浮的感觉。 照片还告诉了我们另外一件事。 它揭露了我是意大利人。
(Laughter)
（笑）
Well, there is very little I can do about that.
这我可没办法。
(Laughter)
（笑）
I'm Italian, and I love beauty. I love beauty.
我是意大利人，我追求美感。 我对美感十分着迷。
Well, let's go sailing, I want to take you sailing here, to this place, in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. This is the Jean-Marie Tjibaou Center. It's for the Kanaky ethnic group. It's in Nouméa, New Caledonia. This place is for art. Art and nature. And those buildings actually flirt with the wind, with the trade winds. They have a sound, they have a voice, those buildings. I'm showing this because it's about beauty. It's about pure beauty.
我们可以乘船出发， 我想要带你们去 这个地方， 在太平洋的中心。 这是Jean-Marie Tjibaou中心， 属于卡耐基民族。 位于新喀里多尼亚的努美阿。 这是一个为艺术所生的地方。 艺术和自然。 这些建筑和微风，和信风 彼此依恋。 它们有声音，这些建筑会发声。 我展示这张图片， 是因为它关乎美。 纯粹的美。
And let's talk about beauty for a moment. Beauty is like the bird of paradise: the very moment you try to catch it, it flies away. Your arm is too short. But beauty is not a frivolous idea. It's the opposite. In my native language, that is Italian, "beautiful" is "bello." In Spanish, "beauty" is "belleza." In Greek, "beautiful" is "kalos." When you add "agathos," that means "beautiful and good." In no one of those languages, "beautiful" just means "beautiful." It also means "good."
现在我们来讲一下美。 美就像是天堂鸟： 在一个瞬间你试图抓住它， 可是它却飞走了。 你的胳膊还不够长。 但是美并不是一个轻浮的想法。 正相反。 在我的母语，意大利语中， "美丽“ 是”Bello“。 在西班牙语中， ”美丽“是”belleza "。 在希腊语中，“美丽”是“kalos”。 当你加上“agathos"， 它的意思就是”美丽和美好"。 但是在这些语言中， 美丽的意思不仅仅是美丽。 同时也是美好的意思。
Real beauty is when the invisible joins the visible, coming on surface. And this doesn't apply only to art or nature. This applies to science, human curiosity, solidarity -- that's the reason why you may say, "This is a beautiful person," "That's a beautiful mind." This, this is the beauty that can change people into better people, by switching a special light in their eyes. And making buildings for this beauty makes cities better places to live. And better cities make better citizens.
真正的美是无形与有形的结合， 并呈现于事物的表面。 这不仅是在艺术和自然中适用。 同时也适用于科学， 人类的好奇心，团结心—— 这也是为什么你可能会说， “这是个美丽的人”， “这是美丽的灵魂”。 这种美可以把一个人变成 更好的人， 改变他们眼中的亮光。 然后为这种美打造建筑， 使城市成为更好的居住地。 更好的城市 会孕育出更好的居民。
Well, this beauty -- this universal beauty, I should say -- is one of the few things that can change the world. Believe me, this beauty will save the world. One person at a time, but it will do it.
这种美—— 这普适的美，我应该这么说—— 是极少的可以 改变世界的事情之一。 相信我， 这种美将会拯救世界。 慢慢来， 但是终将会发生的。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）