Fifteen years ago, I thought that the diversity stuff was not something I had to worry about. It was something an older generation had to fight for. In my university, we were 50-50, male-female, and we women often had better grades. So while not everything was perfect, diversity and leadership decisions was something that would happen naturally over time, right?
﻿15年前, 我以为多元 化之类的问题 不是我需要担心的事 它们是老一辈要为之斗争的东西 在我的大学里， 我们刚刚一半男性和一半女性 而且我们女生经常 拿到更好的成绩 所以虽然不是所有事都是完美的 多元性和领导性决定 是会随着时间 自然而然发生的，对吗？
Well, not quite. While moving up the ladder working as a management consultant across Europe and the US, I started to realize how often I was the only woman in the room and how homogenous leadership still is. Many leaders I met saw diversity as something to comply with out of political correctness, or, best case, the right thing to do, but not as a business priority. They just did not have a reason to believe that diversity would help them achieve their most immediate, pressing goals: hitting the numbers, delivering the new product, the real goals they are measured by.
唔，不完全是 随着工作上升到一个 跨欧洲和美国的管理顾问， 我开始意识到我 很多时候是房间里唯一的女性 以及领导层仍然是多么的单性别 许多我遇到的领导者 把多元化视为符合政治正确性的东西 或者，最好的情况下，正确的事 但不是一个企业重点 他们就是没有原因去相信 多元性会帮助他们达成 他们最迫切的、紧急的目标： 达到业绩，推出新产品， 用以测量他们的真正目标
My personal experience working with diverse teams had been that while they require a little bit more effort at the beginning, they did bring fresher, more creative ideas. So I wanted to know: Are diverse organizations really more innovative, and can diversity be more than something to comply with? Can it be a real competitive advantage?
我自己和多元化团队合作的经历 是虽然在一开始他们需要一点更多的努力 他们确实带来了更新颖的、 更有创意的想法 那么我想要知道： 多元化的组织真的更有创意吗 以及多元性可以不仅仅是 一项需要遵守的事情吗？ 它可以是一个真正的竞争优势吗？
So to find out, we set up a study with the Technical University of Munich. We surveyed 171 companies in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, and as we speak, we're expanding the study to 1,600 companies in five additional countries around the world. We asked those companies basically two things: how innovative they are and how diverse they are.
所以为了找到答案，我们和 慕尼黑工业大学创立了一个研究 我们调查了171个在 德国、奥地利、和瑞士的公司 而就在演讲进行的同时， 我们正在把研究拓展到 1600个公司 在世界上五个额外的国家里 我们询问那些公司基本两件事： 他们多有创意以及他们是怎样的多元化
To measure the first one, we asked them about innovation revenue. Innovation revenue is the share of revenues they've made from new products and services in the last three years, meaning we did not ask them how many creative ideas they have, but rather if these ideas translate into products and services that really make the company more successful today and tomorrow. To measure diversity, we looked at six different factors: country of origin, age and gender, amongst others.
为了测试第一点， 我们询问他们有关创新收入的问题 创新收入是他们在过去三年里从 新的产品和服务中赚取的股份， 也就是说我们没有问， 他们有多少有创意的想法 而是这些想法是否 转化为真的让公司 在眼下和未来变得 更成功的产品和服务 为了衡量多元性， 我们察看六个不同的因素： 原国籍，年龄和性别，以及其它
While preparing to go in the field with those questions, I sat down with my team and we discussed what we would expect as a result. To put it mildly, we were not optimistic. The most skeptical person on the team thought, or saw a real possibility, that we would find nothing at all. Most of the team was rather on the cautious side, so we landed all together at "only if," meaning that we might find some kind of link between innovation and diversity, but not across the board -- rather only if certain criteria are met, for example leadership style, very open leadership style that allowed people to speak up freely and safely and contribute.
在准备带着那些问题 去实地考察的时候， 我和我的团队坐了下来， 然后我们讨论了 我们期待什么样的结果 婉转来说，我们对此并不感到乐观 团队中最持怀疑态度的人认为， 或是看到了一个真正的可能， 我们不会发现任何东西 团队里大多是人 都在谨慎的一边 所以我们全都决定了“只有当” 也就是说我们可能会在 革新和多元性之间 找到某种链接 但不是在所有情况下—— 而是只有当符合特定的标准是 比如领导方式， 非常开放的领导方式 允许人们自由并安全地 发言并作出贡献
A couple of months later, the data came in, and the results convinced the most skeptical amongst us. The answer was a clear yes, no ifs, no buts. The data in our sample showed that more diverse companies are simply more innovative, period.
几个月以后，数据收集好了 而最终结果说服了我们 之中最持怀疑态度的人 答案是一个清楚的肯定， 没有如果，没有但是 我们样品中的数据显示 更多元化的公司 就是更创新，句号
Now, a fair question to ask is the chicken or the egg question, meaning, are companies really more innovative because they have a more diverse leadership, or the other way around? Which way is it? Now, we do not know how much is correlation versus causation, but what we do know is that clearly, in our sample, companies that are more diverse are more innovative, and that companies that are more innovative have more diverse leadership, too. So it's fair to assume that it works both ways, diversity driving innovation and innovation driving diversity.
现在，一个公平的问题 就是先有鸡还是先有蛋的问题 也就是，公司更创新真的是 因为他们有一个更多元化的领导层？ 还是反过来的呢？ 它是什么顺序？ 现在，我们不知道相关性 和因果性的比例是多少 但是我们清楚地知道， 在我们的样本里， 更多元化的公司 更有创造力 而更有创造力的公司 同样有更多元化的领导层 那么我们可以公平地 假设它双向都成立 多元性导致创新力和 创新力导致多元性
Now, once we published the results, we were surprised about the reactions in the media. We got quite some attention. And it went from quite factual, like "Higher Female Share Boosts Innovation" to a little bit more sensationalist.
如今，当我们发表了成果 我们对媒体上的反应感到很惊讶 我们得到了挺多的注意力 而它从比较如实的 像是“更高的女性比例推进创新力” 变得有点耸人听闻
(Laughter)
（笑声）
As you can see, "Stay-at-home Women Cost Trillions," and, my personal favorite, "Housewives Kill Innovation." Well, there's no such thing as bad publicity, right?
就像你可以看到的， “呆在家的女人浪费万亿” 还有，我个人的最爱， “家庭主妇扼杀创新力” 那么，关注怎么样都不坏，对吗？
(Laughter)
（笑声）
On the back of that coverage, we started to get calls from senior executives wanting to understand more, especially -- surprise, surprise -- about gender diversity. I tend to open up those discussions by asking, "Well, what do you think of the situation in your organization today?" And a frequent reaction to that is, "Well, we're not yet there, but we're not that bad." One executive told me, for example, "Oh, we're not that bad. We have one member in our board who is a woman."
在新闻报道的背后 我们开始接到来自于 想要知道更多的 高层主管人员的电话 尤其是——惊喜 ——关于性别多元性 我倾向于用提问开始这些讨论 “那么，你对于你的团体的现状怎么看呢？” 而对此的常见反应就是 “唔，我们还没到那一步， 但我们不是那么差” 一位主管告诉我，比如说 “哦，我们没那么差 我们董事会里有一个女性成员”
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And you laugh --
然后你们笑了——
(Applause)
（掌声）
Now, you laugh, but he had a point in being proud about it, because in Germany, if you have a company and it has one member on the board who is a woman, you are part of a select group of 30 out of the 100 largest publicly listed companies. The other 70 companies have an all-male board, and not even one of these hundred largest publicly listed companies have, as of today, a female CEO. But here's the critically important insight. Those few female board members alone, they won't make a difference. Our data shows that for gender diversity to have an impact on innovation, you need to have more than 20 percent women in leadership. Let's have a look at the numbers. As you can see, we divided the sample into three groups, and the results are quite dramatic. Only in the group where you have more than 20 percent women in leadership, only then you see a clear jump in innovation revenue to above-average levels. So experience and data shows that you do need critical mass to move the needle, and companies like Alibaba, JP Morgan or Apple have as of today already achieved that threshold.
现在，你们笑了，但是 他有道理为此感到骄傲 因为在德国 如果你有一个公司 而它的董事会上有一个女性成员 你就是100个最大的 公共列出的公司中 挑选出的30个的一员了 其余的70个公司有全男性的董事会 而且这些最大的公共列出的名单中甚至没有一个公司 在今天，有一个女性的首席执行官 但是这是最关键的重要见解 光是那些少数的女性董事会成员 他们不会改变些什么 我们的数据显示，为了让 性别多元化在创新力上有影响， 你需要在领导层力 有多于20%的女性 让我们看一看数据 正如你所看到的， 我们把样本分为了三组 而结果是有点戏剧性的 只有在领导层里有多于 20%的女性的一组里， 只有在那时候你看到 创新收入明显地增长 至高出平均地水平 那么经验和数据显示 你确实需要关键的数量 来作出改变 而像是阿里巴巴，摩根大通， 或是苹果之类的公司 都已经在今天达到了那个门槛
Another reaction I got quite a lot was, "Well, it will get solved over time." And I have all the sympathy in the world for that point of view, because I used to think like that, too. Now, let's have a look here again and look at the numbers, taking Germany as an example. Let me first give you the good news. So the share of women who are college graduates and have at least 10 years of professional experience has grown nicely over the last 20 years, which means the pool in which to fish for female leaders has increased over time, and that's great. Now, according to my old theory, the share of women in leadership would have grown more or less in parallel, right? Now, let's have a look at what happened in reality. It's not even close, which means I was so wrong and which means that my generation, your generation, the best-educated female generation in history, we have just not made it. We have failed to achieve leadership in significant numbers. Education just did not translate into leadership.
另一个我经常收到的反应就是 “哦，这会随着时间推移被解决的” 而我对这个观点怀有 世界上所有的同情心 因为我曾经也那么想 那么，让我们再看一看这里 并看一看这些数字 用德国作为一个例子 让我先给你们个好消息 那就是大学毕业生并且 有至少十年的专业经验的女性比例 在过去的20年里良好增长 这意味着可寻觅女性领导者的储备 随着时间增加了 这很棒 现在，根据我过去的理论 领导层的女性比例 会多少平行地增长，对吗？ 现在，让我们看一下 现实中发生了什么 一点都不接近 意味着我是错的 也意味着我的同代人 你们的同代人 历史上受到最好教育的一代女性 我们就是没有做到 我们没能有很多数量达到领导层 教育就是没有转化成领导力
Now, that was a painful realization for me and made me realize, if we want to change this, we need to engage, and we need to do better. Now, what to do? Achieving more than 20 percent women in leadership seems like a daunting task to many, understandably, given the track record. But it's doable, and there are many companies today that are making progress there and doing it successfully. Let's take SAP, the software company, as an example. They had, in 2011, 19 percent women in leadership, yet they decided to do better, and they did what you do in any other area of business where you want to improve. They set themselves a measurable target. So they set themselves a target of 25 percent for 2017, which they have just achieved. The goals made them think more creatively about developing leaders and tapping new recruiting pools. They now even set a target of 30 percent women in leadership for 2022.
那么，这对我是一个痛苦的认知 并且让我意识到 如果我们想要改变这个 我们需要参与， 而且我们需要做得更好 那么，做什么呢？ 在领导层里达到多于20%的女性 对很多人听起来是 一个望而却步的任务 这可以理解，有了历史记录之后 但这是可行的 而且今天有很多公司在取得进展 并且成功地做到它 让我们用SAP，软件公司， 作为一个例子 2011年，他们在领导层里有19%的女性 然而他们决定做得更好 而他们做了你们在 任何想要改善的 其它商业领域里做的事 他们给他们自己 定下了一个可测量的目标 那么他们给自己定下了 在2017年达到25%的目标 他们刚刚达到这点 目标让他们更有创意地 思考发展领导者 并利用新的招聘储备 他们现在甚至给2022年 设了领导层有30%女性的目标
So experience shows it's doable, and at the end of the day, it all boils down to two decisions that are taken every day in every organization by many of us: who to hire and who to develop and promote. Now, nothing against women's programs, networks, mentoring, trainings. All is good. But it is these two decisions that at the end of the day send the most powerful change signal in any organization.
那么经验显示这是可行的 而最终 它全部浓缩为我们许多人在每个组织 日常作出的两个决定： 招聘什么人和发展并提升什么人 现在，我并不反对女性项目 关系网，指导，培训 这都是好的 但是就是这两个决定 最终在任何组织中传递了 最有力的改变信号
Now, I never set out to be a diversity advocate. I am a business advisor. But now my goal is to change the face of leadership, to make it more diverse -- and not so that leaders can check a box and feel like they have complied with something or they have been politically correct. But because they understand, they understand that diversity is making their organization more innovative, better. And by embracing diversity, by embracing diverse talent, we are providing true opportunity for everyone.
现在，我从不是有意 想成为一个多元性拥护者 我是一个商业顾问 但是现在我的目标是 改变领导层的外貌 把它变得更多元化—— 而且这并不是为了让 领导者可以在方框里打个勾 并感到他们遵守了某件事 或是他们是政治正确的 而是因为他们理解 他们明白多元性正在让他们的团体 更创新，更好 而通过迎接多元性， 通过迎接多元的才能 我们正在给每个人提供真正的机会
Thank you. Thank you so much.
谢谢你们，真的非常感谢
(Applause)
（掌声）