Let's put the care back into health care. I've been working in the healthcare sector for the last 15 years, and one of the things that drew me to this sector was my interest in the care component of our healthcare systems -- more specifically, to the invaluable role played by carers.
﻿让我们将关爱重新带回医疗健康领域。 在过去的15年中， 我一直从事医疗护理行业， 将我吸引到这个行业的原因之一， 其实是我们医疗护理系统中的 那个关爱的成分。 更具体的说， 我被那些护理者所扮演的 宝贵角色深深吸引了。
Now, how many of you in this room consider yourself a carer? By this, I mean how many of you have cared for someone suffering from an illness, injury or disability? Can you raise your hand if this is the case? About half of the room. I want to thank all of you who raised your hands for the time that you've spent as a carer. What you do is extremely precious.
现在，我想问在座的各位， 有多少人认为自己是一个“护理者”？ 我的意思是，你们当中有多少人 认为自己在照顾着 被病痛折磨，或饱受伤痛 和残疾困扰的人？ 如果你们认为自己属于 这个范畴，请举手。 在座的有一半都举起了手。 我想要谢谢举起手的诸位， 感谢你们作为一位 “护理者”所付出的时间， 你们所做的一切是非常难能可贵的。
I am a former cared-for patient myself. When I was a teenager, I suffered from Lyme disease and underwent 18 months of antibiotic treatment. I was repeatedly misdiagnosed: bacterial meningitis, fibromyalgia, you name it. They couldn't figure it out. And if I'm standing here in front of you today, it's because I owe my life to the stubbornness and commitment of one carer. He did everything he could for me -- driving long distances from one treatment center to another, searching for the best option, and above all, never giving up, despite the difficulties he encountered, including from a work and quality-of-life perspective. That was my father. I recovered, and this is largely thanks to his dedication.
从前，我自己就是一位需要别人 来关照、护理的病人。 我十几岁的时候患有莱姆病， 接受过18个月的抗生素治疗。 那时候，我一次又一次地被误诊： 我曾经被诊断为细菌性脑膜炎、 纤维肌痛等等。 医生就是不能确诊我的病因。 我之所以还能够出现在你们面前， 全都是因为一名 “护工”的执着与付出， 我的生命都是他给予的。 他真的为我做了 力所能及的一切 —— 他常常从一个治疗中心 开长途到另一个中心， 为我寻找着最好的治疗方案， 最重要的是，尽管他遭遇了种种困难， 面临着来自工作、生活的压力， 他从来、从来没有放弃。 这位“护工”其实就是我的父亲。 我能够从当时的病痛中康复， 很大程度上都是因为我父亲的奉献。
This experience turned me into a patient advocate. The closer I looked, the more I saw carers providing the same kind of support that my father provided to me, and playing a crucial role in the healthcare system. I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that without informal carers like him, our health and social systems would crumble. And yet, they're largely going unrecognized.
这段经历让我变成了 一个病人权益的维护者。 当我更仔细地审视病人们的生活时， 我越能够看到那些护理者们 提供着与我父亲一样的支持。 我也越能够看到他们在医疗健康 系统中扮演着无比重要的角色。 我认为，丝毫不夸张地讲， 如果没有了像我父亲 一样的“业余”护工们， 我们的医疗、健康、社会系统 都将面临着崩溃。 但即使如此，这些人（的贡献） 却往往不为人所知。
I am now a long-distance carer for my mother, who suffers from multiple chronic conditions. I understand, now more than ever, the demands that caregivers face. With aging populations, economic instability, healthcare system stress and increased incidents of long-term chronic care needs, the importance and demands on family caregivers are greater than ever. Carers all over the world are sacrificing their own physical, financial and psychosocial well-being to provide care for their loved ones. Carers have their own limits and needs, and in absence of adequate support, many could be stretched to the breaking point. Once seen as a personal and private matter in family life, unpaid caregiving has formed the invisible backbone of our health and social systems all over the world.
目前，我一直在异地照料我的母亲， 她罹患着多种慢性疾病。 我现在愈发清晰地认识到， 那些护理者所面对的巨大需求。 面临着人口的老龄化、 经济的不稳定性、 医疗健康系统所承担的压力、 以及长期慢性疾病护理的需求增长， 源自于家庭的护理者 角色变得愈发重要， 对于他们的需求也在日益增长。 来自全球各地的护理者 牺牲了自己的健康、 金钱和社交生活， 为了给他们所爱的人提供照料。 那些护理者们有自己的极限和需求， 倘若没有了足够的支持， 他们也很有可能会因不堪重负而崩溃。 那些曾被视为家庭生活中 私人的，无偿的护理者们， 现在已经在无形中形成了 全球各地医疗社会系统的支柱。
Many of these carers are even in this room, as we have just seen. Who are they, and how many are they? What are the challenges that they are facing? And, above all, how can we make sure that their value to patients, our healthcare system and society is recognized? Anyone can be a carer, really: a 15-year-old girl caring for a parent with multiple sclerosis; a 40-year-old man juggling full-time work while caring for his family who lives far away; a 60-year-old man caring for his wife who has terminal cancer; or an 80-year-old woman caring for her husband who has Alzheimer's disease.
有许多护理者甚至就在我们当中。 正如刚才举手的那些人。 他们到底是谁？他们到底有多少人？ 他们正在面临着哪些挑战？ 而更重要的是， 我们如何才能保证他们在病人、 在我们的医疗保健系统 以及社会中的价值 能够被知晓和认可呢？ 诚然，每个人都可以成为一名护理者： 一名15岁的小女孩照顾着 患有多重硬化疾病的病人； 一个40岁的男人一边做着职工作， 一边要照顾他异地的家庭； 一位60岁的爷爷照顾着 他罹患晚期癌症的妻子； 亦或是一位80岁的老奶奶照顾着她 患有阿尔茨海默症 （俗称老年痴呆）的丈夫。
The things carers do for their patients are varied. They provide personal care, like getting someone dressed, feeding them, helping them to the bathroom, helping them move about. They also provide a significant level of medical care, because they often know a lot about their loved one's condition and needs, sometimes better than the patients themselves, who may be paralyzed or confused by their diagnosis. In those situations, carers are also advocates for the patient.
护理者为病人们做出的事情或许不同， 他们或许是照料日常起居， 比如帮助病人们更衣、 喂食、 如厕、 行动。 他们也提供着重要的医疗护理， 因为护理者们通常比 病人们自己还要了解 他们的病情和需求， 因为病人们可能会因为 自己的病症而失去信心或感到困惑。 在这种情况中， 护理者们又是他们的代言人。
Also of critical importance is the fact that carers also provide emotional support. They organize doctor's appointments, they manage finances, and they also deal with daily household tasks. These challenges are challenges that we can't ignore. There are currently more than 100 million carers providing 80 percent of care across Europe. And even if these numbers are impressive, they're most likely underestimated, given the lack of recognition of carers. As we have just seen, many of you in this room weren't sure if you could be qualified or considered to be a carer. Many of you probably thought I was referring to a nurse or some other healthcare professional.
另外还有不可忽视的一点， 就是护理者们是病人们的精神支柱， 他们安排与医生的会诊， 管理着家庭财务， 也需要与日常家务打交道。 他们所面临的这些挑战 是我们不能忽视的。 在欧洲，目前有一亿的护理者， 提供着百分之八十的护理工作。 尽管这样的数字已经十分可观， 但因为对他们的忽视， 这个数字仍然很有可能被低估了。 正如我们刚刚所看到的， 在座的很多人 也不确定自己是否够格， 或者自己是否能被算为护理人。 你们很多人或许觉得 我指的是一位护士， 或者是其他在医疗健康界的职业。
Also stunning are the benefits that carers bring to our societies. I want to give you just one example from Australia in 2015. The annual value provided by informal carers to those suffering from mental illness was evaluated at 13.2 billion Australian dollars. This is nearly two times what the Australian government spends on mental health services annually. These numbers, among others, demonstrate that if carers were to stop caring tomorrow, our health and social systems would crumble. And while the importance of these millions of silent carers cannot be denied, they've largely been unnoticed by governments, healthcare systems and private entities.
同样令人震撼的是， 这些护理者为我们的社会 带来的巨大福利。 我想给你们一个2015年 发生在澳大利亚的例子。 根据评估，业余护工在一年中， 为那些患有精神疾病的人 提供的帮扶 具有132亿澳元的价值。 这几乎是澳大利亚政府 在心理健康服务上 花费的两倍。 这些数字， 体现出倘若明天这些 护理者们停止了工作， 我们的健康、医疗 与社会系统将会瘫痪。 虽然这些千百万的幕后护理者的 重要性不可否认， 他们却常常被政府、 被医疗健康系统 和私营企业忽视。
In addition, carers are facing enormous personal challenges. Many carers face higher costs and can face financial difficulties, given the fact that they may not be able to work full time or they may not be able to hold down a job altogether. Many studies have shown that often carers sacrifice their own health and well-being in order to care for their loved ones. Many carers spend so much time caring for their loved ones that often their family and their relationships can suffer. Many carers report that often, their employers don't have adequate policies in place to support them.
除此之外，护理者们面临着 巨大的个人挑战。 很多护理者们面临着 更高的支出以及经济困难， 因为他们可能无法进行全职工作， 或者甚至都不能工作。 很多研究表明， 护理者们为了照顾他们所爱的人， 牺牲了自己的健康和幸福。 许多的护理者们在 家庭关系上可能会出现隔阂， 因为他们为自己所爱的人 付出了那么多时间。 许多护理者们表示， 在职场，他们的雇主 常常没有足够的政策 来支持他们。
There has been improvement, though, in the recognition of carers around the world. Just a few years ago, an umbrella organization called the International Alliance of Carer Organizations, or IACO, was formed to bring together carer groups from all over the world, to provide strategic direction, facilitate information sharing, as well as actively advocate for carers on an international level. Private entities are also starting to recognize the situation of carers. I am proud that my personal engagement and enthusiasm towards this topic of carers found an echo in my own workplace. My company is committed to this cause and has developed an unprecedented framework for its employees and society as a whole. The objective is to empower carers to improve their own health and well-being and bring about a greater balance to their lives.
好在情况已经有了改善， 全世界的护理者们都在 慢慢地被世人所知。 就在几年前，一个名叫 国际护理者联盟组织（IACO）的 联合机构被建立了起来， 将全球各地的护理者们团结在一起， 提供战略性方向、 促进信息共享， 以及在国际舞台上 伸张护理者们的权益。 私人企业也开始 重视护理者们的情况。 我为我个人参与到照理者这个问题 所付出的热心而感到自豪， 也在我自己的工作单位得到响应。 我的公司对这个问题做出承诺， 并为其员工以及整体社会开发出了 一个史无前例的构架。 目标是要让照理者有能力 来改善他们自己的健康和生计， 并让他们在生活中实现更好的平衡。
Nevertheless, much more needs to be done to complement these relatively isolated initiatives. Our societies are facing increased health pressures, including aging populations, increased incidence of cancer and chronic conditions, widespread inequality, amongst many others. To confront these challenges, policymakers must look beyond traditional healthcare pathways and employment policies and recognize that informal care will continue to form the bedrock of care.
不过这还远远不足以 完善这些相对孤立的计划方案。 我们的社会正在面临 越来越大的健康压力， 包括人口老龄化、 癌症和慢性病案例的增多、 普遍的不平等， 及许多其他状况。 若要对抗这些挑战， 政策制订者不能单单 关注传统健康护理的途径 以及雇佣政策， 他们要承认非正式护理 会形成持续护理。
Caring for someone should be a choice and should be done without putting one's own well-being in the balance. But to really put the care back into health care, what's needed is a deep, societal, structural change. And this can only happen through a change in mindset. And this can start today. Today, we can plant the seed for a change for millions of carers around the world.
照顾某个人，应该是一种选择， 而且即便要做，也不应该以 自己的切身利益为代价。 但如果要真的让照顾 回归到健康护理当中， 需要的是社会结构上的深刻改变。 若要实现，必定要在心态上做改变。 而这种改变此时此刻就可以发生。 今天，我们能种下改变的种子， 为了全世界数百万的护理者。
Here's what I want to suggest: when you go home today or to the office tomorrow morning, embrace a carer. Thank them, offer him or her a bit of help, maybe even volunteer as a carer yourself for a couple hours a week. If carers around the world felt better recognized, it would not only improve their own health and well-being and sense of fulfillment, but it would also improve the lives of those that they're caring for.
我想提出倡议： 今天你回家时， 或是明天早上到办公室时， 拥抱一位护理者。 谢谢他们， 提供他或她一点协助， 也许自己每周能花上几小时 去当护理志愿者。 若全世界护理者 都能感受到他们的贡献被认可， 不仅仅他们自己的健康、 利益和满足感 可以获得改善， 被他们所照顾的人的 生活也能够获得改善。
Let's care more.
多关心他们一些吧。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（掌声）