Visible from space, the Okavango Delta is Africa's largest remaining intact wetland wilderness. This shining delta in landlocked Botswana is the jewel of the Kalahari, more valuable than diamonds to the world's largest diamond producer and celebrated in 2014 as our planet's 1000th UNESCO World Heritage Site. Now, what you see here are the two major tributaries, the Cuito and the Cubango, disappearing up north into the little-known Angolan highlands. This is the largest undeveloped river basin on the planet, spanning an area larger than California. These vast, undeveloped Angolan watersheds were frozen in time by 27 years of civil war. In fact, Africa's largest tank battle since World War II was fought over a bridge crossing the Okavango's Cuito River. There on the right, disappearing off into the unknown, into the "Terra do fim do mundo" -- the land at the end of the earth, as it was known by the first Portuguese explorers.
﻿从太空看， 奥卡万戈三角洲， 是非洲剩余最大、 最完整的野生湿地荒野。 这个位于博茨瓦纳内陆的三角洲， 是卡拉哈里闪闪发亮的宝石， 比世界上最大的 钻石生产商的更有价值， 并于 2014 年， 被列入为地球上第 1000 处 联合国教科文组织世界遗产。 现在，你可以看到的 是两条主要支流， 奎托和奥卡万戈河， 向北逐渐消失在 鲜为人知的安哥拉高地。 这个是我们地球上 最大的未开发的流域， 是比加利福尼亚州 面积更大的区域。 这片巨大的安哥拉流域 之所以未被开发， 与 27 年的内战有关。 事实上，非洲自第二次世界 大战以来最大的坦克战， 就发生在穿越奥卡万戈三角洲 内奎托河上的一座桥上。 就在这右边， 消失在未知之中， 消失在“地球尽头（葡萄牙语）”， 地球尽头。 正如第一批葡萄牙 探险家所了解的那样。
In 2001, at the age of 22, I took a job as head of housekeeping at Vundumtiki Camp in the Okavango Delta ... a patchwork mosaic of channels, floodplains, lagoons and thousands upon thousands of islands to explore. Home to the largest remaining population of elephants on the planet. Rhinos are airlifted in C130s to find sanctuary in this wilderness. Lion, leopard, hyena, wild dog, cheetah, ancient baobab trees that stand like cathedrals under the Milky Way. Here, I discovered something obvious: wilderness is our natural habitat, too. We need these last wild places to reconnect with who we really are. We -- all seven billion of us -- must never forget we are a biological species forever bound to this particular biological world. Like the waves connected to the ocean, we cannot exist apart from it -- a constant flow of atoms and energy between individuals and species around the world in a day and out into the cosmos. Our fates are forever connected to the millions of species we rely on directly and indirectly every day.
2001年，当时我22岁， 我获得了一份在Vundumtiki 营地看家的工作， 位置就在奥卡万戈三角洲， 那里汇集了海峡，涝原和泻湖， 以及等待探索的成千岛屿。 这里是地球上仅存最大的 大象野生家园。 犀牛通过军机C130s空运， 也来到在这片荒野中寻找庇护所。 还有狮子， 豹子， 鬣狗， 野狗， 猎豹， 以及像大教堂一样伫立的 古老面包树， 他们都存在于这片银河之下。 在这里，我发现 荒野也是我们人类的自然栖息地。 我们需要这片最后的荒野 来重新思考我们真实的存在。 我们 —— 我们所有的70亿人—— 绝不能忘记， 我们也是一种生物， 我们与这个生物世界， 永远存在着联系。 就像浪花离不开大海， 我们也无法与 这个生物世界分离—— 个体和物种之间不断的 原子和能量流动， 每天都在这个世界的各个角落， 和宇宙之外发生着。 我们的命运永远与 数以百万计的物种联系在一起， 通过直接或间接的方式，彼此依赖。
Four years ago, it was declared that 50 percent of all wildlife around the world had disappeared in just 40 years. This is a mass drowning of 15,000 wildebeests that I witnessed in the Maasai Mara two years ago. This is definitely our fault. By 2020, global wildlife populations are projected to have fallen by a staggering two-thirds. We are the sixth extinction because we left no safe space for millions of species to sustainably coexist.
四年以前， 有消息宣称，在过去的40年间， 全球有50%的野生动物消失了。 两年前，我在马赛马拉， 亲眼目睹了15000头角马的溺亡。 这绝对是我们人类的过错。 据预测，全球野生动物 总数到了2020年 会再度减少三分之二。 我们正位于第六次大灭绝中， 我们没有为数百万 物种留下安全空间 来和我们一起和谐共存。
Now, since 2010, I have poled myself eight times across the Okavango Delta to conduct detailed scientific surveys along a 200-mile, 18-day research transect. Now, why am I doing this? Why am I risking my life each year? I'm doing this because we need this information to benchmark this near-pristine wilderness before upstream development happens.
自2010年以来，我撑船 横跨了八次奥卡万戈三角洲， 沿着200英里的河流， 展开为期18天的科学调研。 为什么我要这样做呢？ 为什么每年都冒着 这样的生命危险呢？ 因为我们需要这些信息， 需要在对上游的开发启动之前， 去记录这些原始荒野的生态标准。
These are the Wayeyi river bushmen, the people of the Okavango Delta. They have taught me all I know about the Mother Okavango -- about presence in the wild. Our shared pilgrimage across the Okavango Delta each year in our mokoros or dugout canoes -- remembers millenia living in the wild. Ten thousand years ago, our entire world was wilderness. Today, wilderness is all that remains of that world, now gone. Ten thousand years ago, we were as we are today: a modern, dreaming intelligence unlike anything seen before. Living in the wilderness is what taught us to speak, to seek technologies like fire and stone, bow and arrow, medicine and poison, to domesticate plants and animals and rely on each other and all living things around us. We are these last wildernesses -- every one of us.
这些是Wayeyi河丛林人， 奥卡万戈三角洲的原住民。 他们教给我有关母亲 奥卡万戈的一切—— 一切有关野外的存在。 我们每年都乘着独木舟， 共同踏上向着奥卡万戈三角洲的 朝圣之旅， 一起铭记像在千年以前 野外生存的情景。 一万年前， 我们的整个世界都是荒野。 今天，荒野成了那个世界的遗迹， 现在也在消失了。 一万年前，我们和今天一样： 向往着未知的未来。 野外生存教会我们说话， 教会我们寻找像火和石头，弓和箭， 药和毒药， 教会我们驯化植物和动物， 教会我们彼此依赖，共同依存。 我们是最后的荒野—— 每个人都是。
Over 80 percent of our planet's land surface is now experiencing measurable human impact: habitat destruction and illegal wildlife trade are decimating global wildlife populations. We urgently need to create safe space for these wild animals. So in late 2014, we launched an ambitious project to do just that: explore and protect. By mid-May 2015, we had pioneered access through active minefields to the undocumented source lake of the Cuito River -- this otherworldly place; an ancient, untouched wilderness. By the 21st of May, we had launched the Okavango megatransect ... in seven dugout canoes; 1,500 miles, 121 days later, all of the poling, paddling and intensive research got us across the entire river basin to Lake Xau in the Kalahari Desert, 480 kilometers past the Okavango Delta.
我们地球上超过80%的土地表面， 在经历着可衡量的人类影响： 栖息地毁灭， 同时非法野生动物贸易 正摧毁着全球野生动物种群。 我们迫切需要为这些 野生动物创造安全的空间。 所以在2014年底， 我们为了这个目的 推出了这个雄心勃勃的项目： 探索和保护野外生存地。 到2015年年中， 我们从活跃的地区开始， 已经到达了奎托河 从未记载的源头湖—— 这个世外桃源， 一片古老而又未经破坏的土地。 到5月21日为止， 我们进行了一次 对奥卡万戈的大型探索， 派出了七艘独木舟； 全程1500英里，历时121天， 在划桨和调研等紧凑的活动下， 我们跨过了成片河流流域， 到达喀拉哈里沙漠里的湖泊， 在距离奥卡万戈三角洲 480公里的地方。
My entire world became the water: every ripple, eddy, lily pad and current ... any sign of danger, every sign of life. Now imagine millions of sweat bees choking the air around you, flesh-eating bacteria, the constant threat of a landmine going off or an unseen hippo capsizing your mokoro. These are the scenes moments after a hippo did just that -- thrusting its tusks through the hull of my boat. You can see the two holes -- puncture wounds in the base of the hull -- absolutely terrifying and completely my fault.
我的世界全是水， 和与水相关的一切： 每一道波纹，涡流， 潮水，每一片莲叶， 每一道危险的提示， 以及每一道生命的迹象。 想象一下，数以百万计的蜜蜂， 围绕着你，抽空你周围的空气， 肉食性细菌， 随时可能踩中的地雷， 以及隐藏在水中准备 弄翻独木舟的河马。 这些是我们在 被河马袭击后的几个场景， 我们的船壳被它的长牙穿透， 你看，就是这两个洞—— 刺穿船壳底座—— 真的是非常可怕， 而且都是我的过错。
(Laughter)
（笑）
Many, many portages, tree blockages and capsizes in rocky rapids. You're living on rice and beans, bathing in a bucket of cold water and paddling a marathon six to eight hours every single day. After 121 days of this, I'd forgotten the PIN numbers to my bank accounts and logins for social media -- a complete systems reboot. You ask me now if I miss it, and I will tell you I am still there.
有非常非常多次， 船只被树木阻挡了， 或者撞击到石头发生了侧翻。 想象一下，生活在水稻与大豆间， 在冷水桶中洗澡， 每天还要进行 6到8小时的划桨马拉松。 121天之后， 我完全忘记了自己银行卡的密码， 也不记得怎样登陆 我的社交账号—— 我的大脑系统仿佛重启了一般。 如果你问我是否想念那趟旅行， 我会告诉你，我依然在那里。
Now why do we need to save places we hardly ever go? Why do we need to save places where you have to risk your life to be there? Now, I'm not a religious or particularly spiritual person, but in the wild, I believe I've experienced the birthplace of religion. Standing in front of an elephant far away from anywhere is the closest I will ever get to God. Moses, Buddha, Muhammad, Jesus, the Hindu teachers, prophets and mystics, all went into the wilderness -- up into the mountains, into the desert, to sit quietly and listen for those secrets that were to guide their societies for millennia. I go into the Okavango on my mokoro. You must join me one day.
你可能会问，为什么我们要去拯救 一个我们也许永远不会去的地方？ 我们为什么要去拯救那些 需要我们冒着生命危险 才能到达的地方？ 我不是一个有宗教信仰的人， 但在野外， 我确信我来到了信仰诞生的地方。 身处荒蛮之地，站在大象的面前， 我仿佛来到了离上帝最近的地方。 摩西，浮屠，穆罕默德，耶稣， 印度教教师，先知，神秘主义者， 他们都去过野外—— 高上山岗，深入沙漠， 静静地坐在那里， 就能聆听所有的秘密， 指引我们社会发展千年的奥秘。 我撑着独木舟来到奥卡万戈。 在未来的某一天，加入我吧。
Over 50 percent of the remaining wilderness is unprotected. A huge opportunity -- a chance for us all. We need to act with great urgency. Since the 2015 megatransect, we have explored all major rivers of the Okavango River basin, covering a life-changing 4,000 miles of detailed research transects on our dugout canoes and our fat-tire mountain bikes. We now have 57 top scientists rediscovering what we call the Okavango-Zambezi water tower -- this vast, post-war wilderness with undocumented source lakes, unnamed waterfalls in what is Africa's largest remaining Miombo woodland. We've now discovered 24 new species to science and hundreds of species not known to be there.
仅存的荒野中，超过一半未经保护。 这是一个非常大的机遇， 对于所有人而言都是一个机遇。 我们需要立刻采取行动。 因为自从2015年大调查以来， 我们探索了奥卡万戈流域中 所有的主要河流， 覆盖超过4000英里的详尽调研。 就靠着我们的独木舟， 和我们的山地自行车。 我们现在有57名顶尖科学家， 重新探索我们所说的 Okavango-Zambezi水源， 这片广阔的战后荒野， 有未经记载的河流源头湖泊， 有非洲最大Miombo林地的未名瀑布。 我们发现了24种新物种， 和数百种迁徙到那里的物种。
This year, we start the process, with the Angolan government, to establish one of the largest systems of protected areas in the world to preserve the Okavango-Zambezi water tower we have been exploring. Downstream, this represents water security for millions of people and more than half of the elephants remaining on this planet. There is no doubt this is the biggest conservation opportunity in Africa in decades. Over the next 10 to 15 years, we need to make an unprecedented investment in the preservation of wilderness around the world. To me, preserving wilderness is far more than simply protecting ecosystems that clean the water we drink and create the air we breathe. Preserving wilderness protects our basic human right to be wild -- our basic human rights to explore.
今年，我们开始和安哥拉政府合作， 建立世界上最大的保护区系统之一， 用以保护我们探索到的， 那个Okavango-Zambezi水源。 下游，有着数百万 依靠这口水源生存的人民， 以及地球上超过一半的 大象所栖息的地方。 毫无疑问，这是数十年来非洲 最大的环保机遇。 在接下来的10到15年间， 我们需要史无前例地关注和投资， 来保护世界各地的荒野。 对于我个人而言， 保护荒野远远不止 简单地保护生态系统， 不止是保护饮用水或者保护空气。 保护荒野，也就是保护我们 去体验狂野的基本人权—— 保护我们探索的基本人权。
Thank you.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
（掌声）