I want to introduce you to my badass friends. Meet Thelma and Louise.
﻿我想向你介绍我的朋友们。 西尔玛和路易斯。 （注：末路狂花的两位女主角） （笑声） 我对奶牛充满了热情。 虽然它们最近因为甲烷排放和气候变化 引发了很多非议， 但我希望通过展示它们在 解决世界上最大的问题之一， 即粮食安全问题， 来恢复它们的部分声誉。 但更重要的是，在非洲—— 粮食安全造成了儿童发育迟缓。
(Laughter)
营养失调表现为 人类成长过程中生长速度的降低。 按照联合国儿童基金会的说法， 生长迟缓不会轻易发生。 它也不会马上发生。 它会在很长一段时间内发生， 比如当小孩遭受痛苦 或者处于虚弱的疾病周期内、 食欲减退、 营养不足、 还有关爱不足。 大部分儿童无法通过这样的严酷考验。 那些存活下來的孩子， 他们也会带着长期的认知问题， 还有身体发育不良。 在世界上绝大部分地区， 五岁以下存在发育迟缓的儿童数量 已经在减少。 我很不想这样说， 但唯一人数没有减少的地方，就是这里， 非洲。 在这里，五千九百万的儿童中， 十分之三的这个年龄段的人 难以达到他们的基因潜力—— 他们完整的基因潜力。
I'm passionate about cows. And although they've been getting a lot of crap lately due to methane emissions and climate change, I hope that I can redeem their reputation in part by showing you how incredibly important they are in solving one of the world's biggest problems: food security. But more importantly, for Africa -- it's resultant childhood stunting.
蛋白质是我们最重要的日常所需， 有证据显示， 若孩童饮食中缺乏构成蛋白质的基本物质 ——氨基酸， 可能会造成生长迟缓。 必需氨基酸之所以是必要的 是因为我们身体无法自己合成。 我们必须从食物中获取， 而最好的来源就是动物制品： 奶、肉类还有蛋类。 非洲大陆上大部分被消耗的蛋白质来自于农作物。 虽然我们有数百万的小农户饲养动物， 畜牧业生产并没有我们想象的那么简单。 贫穷和富有国家在畜牧业上的差距 源于较差的动物健康水平。 地方性的家畜疾病， 其中一些是可以传染给人类的， 所以在这些贫困国家当中，这类疾病 不仅仅威胁着畜牧生产者， 同时也威胁着这些国家里所有人的健康。
Nutritional stunting manifests itself in a reduction of growth rate in human development. And according to UNICEF, stunting doesn't come easy. It doesn't come quickly. It happens over a long period of time during which a child endures painful and debilitating cycles of illness, depressed appetite, insufficient nutrition and inadequate care. And most kids simply can't endure such rigors. But those that do survive, they carry forward long-term cognitive problems as well as losses of stature. The numbers of stunted children under the age of five, in most regions of the world, has been declining. And I really hate to say this, but the only place where they haven't been declining is here, in Africa. Here, 59 million children, three in 10 in that age group, struggle to meet their genetic potential -- their full genetic potential.
这是全球病原体网络。 根据加强后的感染病数据库提供的数据， 这显示了全球范围内已被发现的病原体。 它同时显示出有共同宿主的的病原体。 简单地说， 我们在和与我们最亲近的物种，牲畜们 共享病原体，也就是说， 共享疾病。 我们把这个叫人畜共患病。 （注：可以通过自然方式传染给人类的动物疫病） 最近的报告显示 许多致命的人畜共患病 每年会杀死二百二十万人， 并且让二十四亿人患病。 吉米说， “来自于人畜共患病最大的压力， 需要十亿个穷困牲畜养殖者来承担。“ 我们完全低估了小型养殖户的重要性。
Protein is one of our most important dietary requirements, and evidence shows that lack of essential amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, in young children's diets, can result in stunting. Essential amino acids are called essential because we can't synthesize them in our bodies. We have to get them from our foods and the best sources are animal-derived: milk, meat and eggs. Most protein consumed on the African continent is crop-based. And although we have millions of smallholder farmers rearing animals, livestock production is not as easy as we think. The big livestock gaps between rich countries and poor countries are due to poor animal health. Endemic livestock diseases, some of them transmissible to humans, threaten not only livestock producers in those poor countries, but all human health across all countries.
我们现在开始认识到他们有多重要， 还有他们会如何影响我们的医疗健康， 生物安全， 还有最近提出的认知健康和生理健康。 他们站在人畜共患病流行的前线。 他们可以说就是我们赖以生存的基础。 他们有太多需要去了解， 然而，他们大多恰恰缺少 有关于牲畜疾病预防和治疗方面的知识。
This is a global pathogens network. It shows the pathogens found across the world according to the Enhanced Infectious Diseases database. And it shows those pathogens that share hosts. In a nutshell, we share pathogens, and thus diseases, with the species we live closest to: our livestock. And we call these zoonotic diseases. Recent reports show that the deadly dozen zoonotic diseases kill 2.2 million people and sicken 2.4 billion people annually. And Jimmy says, "The greatest burden of zoonoses falls on one billion poor livestock keepers."
所以他们从何了解呢？ 除了通过共享的经验， 通过反复的试验试错， 传统农业的推广服务和无线电广播—— 在面对人口增长时，这显得不够经济 也难以衡量成效。
We totally underestimate the importance of our smallholder farmers. We're beginning to recognize how important they are and how they influence our medical health, our biosafety and more recently, our cognitive and our physical health. They stand at the frontline of zoonotic epidemics. They pretty much underpin our existence. And they need to know so much, yet most lack knowledge on livestock disease prevention and treatment.
听起来挺沮丧的是吧？ 但是我们处在对于非洲来说一个非常 有趣的时间节点上。 我们将会跨过那些规模化的技术， 使用一个具有创造性的方案来改变现状。 知识不一定要是昂贵的。
So how do they learn? Apart from shared experiences, trial and error, conventional farming extension services are boots on the ground and radio -- expensive and hard to scale in the face of population growth.
我的公司研发了一款农业平台名叫iCow。 我们在简单低端的手机上， 通过SMS（手机短信服务）教给农民们 最好的畜牧业饲养方法。 农民们会在每周收到三条有关畜牧 饲养方法的短信， 那些看完短信并学以致用的农民们， 在短短三个月的时间内 生产力就获得了提高。 生产率提高的第一个因素当然 就是家畜健康水平的提高。 我们使用SMS（手机短信服务）的原因就是 它容易存储信息。 农民们保存这些信息， 并把它们记载入册， 实际上， 我们是一点一点把农业手册上的知识 运用到实际生产之中：
Sounds pretty gloomy, doesn't it? But we're at an interesting point in Africa. We're changing that narrative using innovative solutions, riding across scalable technologies. Knowledge doesn't have to be expensive.
我们意识到我们都是 全球食物网络的一部分， 生产者和消费者， 你和我，以及每一位农场主。 现在我们的重点在于尝试把 生产者和消费者整合在一起， 共同行动并共同承担责任，这不仅仅 是为了防止食物短缺， 也是为了保证食品健康。
My company developed an agricultural platform called iCow. We teach farmers best livestock practices using SMS over simple, low-end phones. Farmers receive three SMSs a week on best livestock practices, and those that execute the messages go on to see increases in productivity within as short a time as three months. The first increases in productivity, of course, are improved animal health. We use SMS because it is retentive. Farmers store their messages, they write them down in books, and in effect, we're drip-feeding agricultural manuals into the fields.
这头美丽的动物是非亚的沙希华牛 与荷兰西门塔尔牛的混种。 她的产奶量要高于她的沙希华牛母亲， 同时也比她的西门塔尔牛父亲更强壮  更能抵抗疾病。 在埃塞俄比亚和坦桑尼亚， 非洲乳牛遗传增益计划（ADGG） 通过使用SMS和尖端的基因组技术， 开创了非洲第一个适应热带天气的 奶牛养殖中心 和奶牛表现记录中心。 农户把他们的生产数据—— 挤奶记录、 繁殖记录和喂食记录—— 提供给ADGG平台。 在通过实操性高的短信通知 重新发回给农户以前， 原始数据将会通过一些世界顶尖的 牲畜养殖机构 提供的算法进行加工计算。 定制化的数据， 定制化的答复， 都是基于目前的潜力 为提高生产力服务。
We recognize that we are all part of the global food network: producers and consumers, you and me, and every farmer. We're focusing now on trying to bring together producers and consumers to take action and take responsibility for not only food security, but for food safety.
我们处在非洲农业非常有趣的节点上。 到今年年底， 我们将会有接近十亿手机订阅用户。 我们有足够的能力， 以确保牲畜生产体系不仅仅是健康的、 多产的以及盈利的， 而且农户是通晓养殖知识的， 更重要的是， 我们的农户是安全的。
This beautiful animal is an African-Asian Sahiwal crossed with a Dutch Fleckvieh. She's milkier than her Sahiwal mom, and she's sturdier and more resistant to disease than her Fleckvieh father. In Ethiopia and Tanzania, the African Dairy Genetic Gains program is using SMS and cutting-edge genomics and pioneering Africa's first tropically adapted dairy breeding centers and dairy performance recording centers. Farmers contribute their production data -- milking records, breeding records and feeding records -- to the ADGG platform. This stage is synthesized through algorithms from some of the top livestock institutions in the world before it lands back in the farmers' hands in actionable SMSs. Customized data, customized responses all aimed at increasing productivity based on the potential on the ground.
与小型养殖户联手合作 是保证粮食安全最好的方法， 与小型养殖户联手合作也保证了每一个孩子 可以得到充分的机会， 以及能力去达到他们所拥有的基因潜力。 利用成千上万小型养殖户的能力 以及他们养殖的，像我的牛一样的“猛”牛们， 我们应该有能力阻止非洲的发育迟缓现象。
We're at a very interesting place in agriculture in Africa. By the end of this year, we'll have almost one billion mobile phone subscriptions. We have the power in our hands to ensure that livestock production systems are not only healthy, productive and profitable, but that farmers are knowledgeable, and more importantly, that our farmers are safe.
谢谢大家。
Working with smallholder farmers is one of the best ways to guarantee food security. Working with smallholder farmers is one of the best ways to guarantee each and every child their full opportunity and ability to reach their full genetic potential. And harnessing the power of millions of smallholder farmers and their badass cows like mine, we should be able to bring a halt to stunting in Africa.
（掌声）
Thank you.
谢谢。