In the late 19th century, scientists were trying to solve a mystery. They found that if they had a vacuum tube like this one and applied a high voltage across it, something strange happened. They called them cathode rays. But the question was: What were they made of?
﻿19世纪晚期， 科学家在试图破解一个迷。 他们发现， 如果有一个像这样的真空管， 在上面施加高压， 会产生奇怪的现象。 他们称之为阴极射线。 但问题是： 它是由什么构成的？
In England, the 19th century physicist, J.J. Thompson, conducted experiments using magnets and electricity, like this. And he came to an incredible revelation. These rays were made of negatively charged particles around 2,000 times lighter than the hydrogen atom, the smallest thing they knew. So Thompson had discovered the first subatomic particle, which we now call electrons.
在19世纪的英国， 物理学家J.J.汤普森 用磁铁和电源做了个实验，就像这样。 他从中得到了 一个不可思议的真相。 这些射线是由某种 带负电荷的粒子构成的， 大约比当时他们所知的 最小的粒子，氢原子，还轻2000倍。 于是汤普森发现了第一个亚原子粒子， 也就是我们现在所称的电子。
Now, at the time, this seemed to be a completely impractical discovery. I mean, Thompson didn't think there were any applications of electrons. Around his lab in Cambridge, he used to like to propose a toast: "To the electron. May it never be of use to anybody."
在当时，这似乎就是个 百无一用的发现。 我意思是，汤普森并不认为 电子能做什么用途。 在他位于剑桥的实验室里， 他过去常常邀杯道： “为电子而干杯， 希望它永远不会对任何人有用。”
(Laughter)
（笑声）
He was strongly in favor of doing research out of sheer curiosity, to arrive at a deeper understanding of the world. And what he found did cause a revolution in science. But it also caused a second, unexpected revolution in technology. Today, I'd like to make a case for curiosity-driven research, because without it, none of the technologies I'll talk about today would have been possible.
他纯粹是因为好奇， 为了更深入地了解世界 而投身于研究工作。 他的发现确实引发了一场科学革命。 但它也引发了另外一场 意料之外的技术革命。 今天，我想为由好奇心 驱动的研究提供充分理由， 因为如果没有它， 我们今天讨论的所有技术, 都不可能存在。
Now, what Thompson found here has actually changed our view of reality. I mean, I think I'm standing on a stage, and you think you're sitting in a seat. But that's just the electrons in your body pushing back against the electrons in the seat, opposing the force of gravity. You're not even really touching the seat. You're hovering ever so slightly above it. But in many ways, our modern society was actually built on this discovery. I mean, these tubes were the start of electronics. And then for many years, most of us actually had one of these, if you remember, in your living room, in cathode ray tube televisions. But -- I mean, how impoverished would our lives be if the only invention that had come from here was the television?
汤普森的这个发现真正地 改变了我们对现实的看法。 我指的是， 我认为我现在站在台上， 你们认为你们坐在座位上。 实际情况是： 你身体里的电子 正把椅子上的 电子往下挤， 以此对抗重力。 你甚至没有 真正碰到座位。 你只是一直在它上面 稍高一点的地方悬浮。 但在很多方面，我们现代社会 其实是建立在这个发现之上的。 我是说，这些管子是 电子学的开端。 以及在以前， 很长一段时间， 如果你还记得，在你的起居室中， 我们大多数人都拥有它的产物， 一台阴极射线管电视。 但是——我的意思是， 即使有了这个发现， 但如果电视只是这唯一的发明， 我们的生活将会多么困顿？
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Thankfully, this tube was just a start, because something else happens when the electrons here hit the piece of metal inside the tube. Let me show you. Pop this one back on. So as the electrons screech to a halt inside the metal, their energy gets thrown out again in a form of high-energy light, which we call X-rays.
幸运的是，这个真空管只是一个开始， 因为当电子 撞到管子里的金属片时, 会发生别的事情。 让我给你们演示。 重新打开它。 所以随着电子“嘎吱一声” 急停在金属内部时， 它们的能量以高能光束的方式 被释放出来，也就是X射线。
(Buzzing)
（嗡嗡响）
(Buzzing)
（嗡嗡响）
And within 15 years of discovering the electron, these X-rays were being used to make images inside the human body, helping soldiers' lives being saved by surgeons, who could then find pieces of bullets and shrapnel inside their bodies. But there's no way we could have come up with that technology by asking scientists to build better surgical probes. Only research done out of sheer curiosity, with no application in mind, could have given us the discovery of the electron and X-rays.
在发现电子后的15年内， 这些X射线被用来拍摄人体内部的影像， 帮助拯救士兵生命的外科医生， 这样他们就能够在士兵 身体中找到子弹和弹片。 但是回到最初，如果命令科学家 发明出更好的手术探针， 这种技术就能凭空出现， 这是不可能的。 只有纯粹出于好奇做的研究， 而不考虑任何实际用途， 才能让我们 发现电子和X射线。
Now, this tube also threw open the gates for our understanding of the universe and the field of particle physics, because it's also the first, very simple particle accelerator. Now, I'm an accelerator physicist, so I design particle accelerators, and I try and understand how beams behave. And my field's a bit unusual, because it crosses between curiosity-driven research and technology with real-world applications. But it's the combination of those two things that gets me really excited about what I do. Now, over the last 100 years, there have been far too many examples for me to list them all. But I want to share with you just a few.
现在，这个真空管也为我们 理解宇宙和粒子物理领域 打开了一扇门， 因为它也是第一个粒子 加速器，结构堪称简陋。 嗯，我是加速器物理学家， 因此我设计粒子加速器， 我试着理解粒子束的行为。 我的领域有点不一般， 因为它的研究 不仅是由好奇心驱动的， 而且也与现实世界的 应用技术相关。 但这两者的结合让我对 我的工作感到非常兴奋。 嗯，在过去100年中， 有太多的案例，数不胜数。 但我想给你们分享其中几个。
In 1928, a physicist named Paul Dirac found something strange in his equations. And he predicted, based purely on mathematical insight, that there ought to be a second kind of matter, the opposite to normal matter, that literally annihilates when it comes in contact: antimatter. I mean, the idea sounded ridiculous. But within four years, they'd found it. And nowadays, we use it every day in hospitals, in positron emission tomography, or PET scans, used for detecting disease.
1928年，一位名叫保罗 · 狄拉克的物理学家 在他的方程中发现了一些奇怪的东西。 仅仅基于数学的洞察，他预测， 应该有第二种物质， 与正常物质相反的物质， 当它们相互接触时就会湮灭： 反物质。 我是说，这个想法听起来很荒谬。 但在4年之内，他们证实了它。 如今，我们每天都在医院使用它， 正电子发射断层扫描， 或叫PET扫描，用于检测疾病。
Or, take these X-rays. If you can get these electrons up to a higher energy, so about 1,000 times higher that this tube, the X-rays that those produce can actually deliver enough ionizing radiation to kill human cells. And if you can shape and direct those X-rays where you want them to go, that allows us to do an incredible thing: to treat cancer without drugs or surgery, which we call radiotherapy. In countries like Australia and the UK, around half of all cancer patients are treated using radiotherapy. And so, electron accelerators are actually standard equipment in most hospitals.
或者，拿这些X光来说。 如果你可以把这些电子 加速到更高能量， 例如，比这个管子里的高1000倍， 由此产生的X射线实际上 可以释放足够强的电离 辐射，杀死人体细胞。 如果你能够按照实际需求 调整X射线的形状和方向， 就可以实现不可思议的事情： 无须药物或手术 就可以治疗癌症， 这就是我们说的放射疗法。 在澳大利亚和英国这样的国家， 大约一半的癌症病人 使用放射疗法。 电子加速器 实际上是很多医院的 标准配备。
Or, a little closer to home: if you have a smartphone or a computer -- and this is TEDx, so you've got both with you right now, right? Well, inside those devices are chips that are made by implanting single ions into silicon, in a process called ion implantation. And that uses a particle accelerator.
或者，在日常生活中： 如果你有智能手机或电脑—— 在TEDx，大家都带着它们，对吧？ 嗯，这些设备中的芯片， 是在“离子注入工序”中通过 将单个离子注入硅来制造的。 这就需要粒子加速器。
Without curiosity-driven research, though, none of these things would exist at all. So, over the years, we really learned to explore inside the atom. And to do that, we had to learn to develop particle accelerators. The first ones we developed let us split the atom. And then we got to higher and higher energies; we created circular accelerators that let us delve into the nucleus and then create new elements, even. And at that point, we were no longer just exploring inside the atom. We'd actually learned how to control these particles. We'd learned how to interact with our world on a scale that's too small for humans to see or touch or even sense that it's there.
没有由好奇心驱动的研究， 这些东西没有一个会存在。 那么，多年来， 我们真正学会了探索原子内部。 要做到这一点， 我们必须研究发展粒子加速器。 我们开发的第一个加速器 让我们分裂原子。 然后我们得到 越来越高的能量； 我们创造了圆形加速器， 让我们深入原子核 然后甚至产生了新的元素。 在那一刻，我们不再只是探索原子内部。 我们学会了控制这些粒子。 我们学会了在一个人类无法看到、 触摸甚至感知到的微观层面上 与世界互动。
And then we built larger and larger accelerators, because we were curious about the nature of the universe. As we went deeper and deeper, new particles started popping up. Eventually, we got to huge ring-like machines that take two beams of particles in opposite directions, squeeze them down to less than the width of a hair and smash them together. And then, using Einstein's E=mc2, you can take all of that energy and convert it into new matter, new particles which we rip from the very fabric of the universe.
然后我们建造越来越大的加速器， 因为我们对宇宙的本质充满好奇。 随着我们越钻越深，新的粒子接连被发现。 最终，我们建造了一个巨大的环状机器， 它把两束粒子从相反的方向 压缩到不到一根 头发那么细的宽度， 然后使它们对撞。 然后，根据爱因斯坦 质能方程E=mc^2， 你得到了所有的能量， 并把它转化为新的物质， 我们从宇宙的特定基本 结构中提取的新的粒子。
Nowadays, there are about 35,000 accelerators in the world, not including televisions. And inside each one of these incredible machines, there are hundreds and billions of tiny particles, dancing and swirling in systems that are more complex than the formation of galaxies. You guys, I can't even begin to explain how incredible it is that we can do this.
如今，全世界有35000台加速器， 不包括电视。 在这些神奇的机器里面， 有数千亿的微小粒子， 在比星系的组成 还复杂的系统中, 跳舞和旋转。 各位，我甚至都无法解释， 我们能做到这一点 是多么的不可思议。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
So I want to encourage you to invest your time and energy in people that do curiosity-driven research. It was Jonathan Swift who once said, "Vision is the art of seeing the invisible." And over a century ago, J.J. Thompson did just that, when he pulled back the veil on the subatomic world.
所以我想鼓励 你们投入时间和精力, 支持人们去做 由好奇心驱动的研究。 乔纳森 · 斯威夫特曾经说过， “远见是见人所未见的艺术。” 一个多世纪前， 汤普森就是这么做的， 当他揭开亚原子世界面纱时。
And now we need to invest in curiosity-driven research, because we have so many challenges that we face. And we need patience; we need to give scientists the time, the space and the means to continue their quest, because history tells us that if we can remain curious and open-minded about the outcomes of research, the more world-changing our discoveries will be.
现在，对于由好奇心驱动的 研究，我们需要进行投入， 因为我们面对着如此多的挑战。 我们需要耐心； 我们需要提供给科学家时间、场所以及 继续他们的探求的工具， 因为历史告诉我们： 如果我们能够对研究的结果 保持好奇和开放的心态， 我们的发现就越能改变世界。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）