[Ojibwe: Hello. My English name is Tara; my Native name is Zhaabowekwe. I am of Couchiching First Nation; my clan is bear. I was born under the Maple Sapping Moon.]
﻿（奥杰布瓦语）你们好！ 我的英文名字是塔拉， 族语名字是札宝威奎。 我是库契钦第一民族中的熊族， 我在春天的第一个满月 （枫糖月）时出生。
My name is Tara Houska, I'm bear clan from Couchiching First Nation, I was born under the Maple Sapping Moon in International Falls, Minnesota, and I'm happy to be here with all of you.
（英语）我叫塔拉．豪斯卡， 我是库契钦第一民族中的熊族， 我在春天的第一个满月时 出生于明尼苏达国际瀑布城。 很开心能与你们齐聚一堂。
(Applause)
（掌声）
Trauma of indigenous peoples has trickled through the generations. Centuries of oppression, of isolation, of invisibility, have led to a muddled understanding of who we are today. In 2017, we face this mixture of Indians in headdresses going across the plains but also the drunk sitting on a porch somewhere you never heard of, living off government handouts and casino money.
原住民族的创伤 已经流淌过了数个世代 几世纪以来的压迫、孤立与忽视， 造成现今族群认同的迷惘。 到了 2017 年， 我们看到了印第安头饰的混用 传遍美洲大平原； 但同时，在你从未听过的地方， 也有人醉倒在门廊上， 靠着政府补助和赌博赚来的钱维生。
(Sighs)
（叹气）
It's really, really hard. It's very, very difficult to be in these shoes, to stand here as a product of genocide survival, of genocide. We face this constant barrage of unteaching the accepted narrative. 87 percent of references in textbooks, children's textbooks, to Native Americans are pre-1900s. Only half of the US states mention more than a single tribe, and just four states mention the boarding-school era, the era that was responsible for my grandmother and her brothers and sisters having their language and culture beaten out of them. When you aren't viewed as real people, it's a lot easier to run over your rights.
这是一件非常、非常棘手的事。 这对我而言非常艰难， 尤其身为原住民族的一份子、 身为种族屠杀的幸存者， 站在这里，很不容易。 我们不断受到认知被扭曲的轰炸， 教科书、学童用书中 提及美国原住民族的部分， 87% 来自1910年代以前的资料。 美国各州中，只有一半 会提及一个以上的部落； 只有四个州，提及寄宿学校时代， 这个时代，造成我的祖母、 她的兄弟姐妹 被迫失去了他们的语言及文化。 当你不被当成真正的人来看待， 他们要践踏你的权利， 就变得非常容易。
Four years ago, I moved to Washington, DC. I had finished school and I was there to be a tribal attorney and represent tribes across the nation, representing on the Hill, and I saw immediately why racist imagery matters. I moved there during football season, of all times. And so it was the daily slew of Indian heads and this "redskin" slur everywhere, while my job was going up on the Hill and trying to lobby for hospitals, for funding for schools, for basic government services, and being told again and again that Indian people were incapable of managing our own affairs. When you aren't viewed as real people, it's a lot easier to run over your rights.
四年前，我搬到华盛顿特区。 那时，我完成了学业 到那里去当部落律师， 代表全国各地的部落， 在国会山庄担任代表， 我随即明白为何种族意象事关重大。 我搬到那里时，正值美式足球季， 每天都有很多印第安人的头， （注：华盛顿是红人队） 到处充斥着「红皮肤」这个辱称。 而我的工作是要去国会山庄， 为医院、学校资金、基础政府服务 进行游说。 我一再被告知： 印第安人没有能力管理自己的事务。 当你不被真正的人看待， 他们要践踏你的权力， 就变得非常容易。
And last August, I went out to Standing Rock Sioux Reservation. I saw resistance happening. We were standing up. There were youth that had run 2,000 miles from Cannonball, North Dakota all the way out to Washington, DC, with a message for President Obama: "Please intervene. Please do something. Help us." And I went out, and I heard the call, and so did thousands of people around the world.
去年八月，我去了立岩地区 苏族印第安原住民保留地， 我亲眼看到反抗行动， 我们站起来了。 有年轻人跑了两千英里路， 从北达科他州的坎农博尔， 一路到华盛顿特区， 将讯息带给奥巴马总统： “ 请介入， 请做点什么， 帮助我们。” 我走出去，我听见了呼喊， 全世界数以千计的人也听见了。
Why did this resonate with so many people? Indigenous peoples are impacted first and worst by climate change. We are impacted first and worst by the fossil-fuel industry. Here in Louisiana, the first US climate change refugees exist. They are Native people being pushed off their homelands from rising sea levels. That's our reality, that's what we live. And with these projects comes a slew of human costs that people don't think about: thousands of workers influxing to build these pipelines, to build and extract from the earth, bringing crime and sex trafficking and violence with them. Missing and murdered indigenous women in Canada has become so significant it's spawned a movement and a national inquiry. Thousands of Native women who have disappeared, who have been murdered. And here in the US, we don't even track that. We are instead left with an understanding that our Supreme Court, the United States Supreme Court, stripped us, in 1978, of the right to prosecute at the same rate as anywhere else in the United States. So as a non-Native person you can walk onto a reservation and rape someone and that tribe is without the same level of prosecutorial ability as everywhere else, and the Federal Government declines these cases 40 percent of the time. It used to be 76 percent of the time. One in three Native women are raped in her lifetime. One in three.
为什么这么多人会对此产生共鸣？ 原住民们是受到气候变迁影响 最先、和最深刻的族群； 我们是最先受到化石燃料产业影响， 且影响最大的族群。 美国首批气候变迁难民 就在这里，路易斯安那州， 他们是原住民族人， 因为海平面上升，被迫离开家园； 这就是我们的现实、我们的生活。 这些计划带来了大量的人力成本， 大家却没去思考： 数以千计的工人涌入， 来建造这些管线， 来建造、抽取地下资源， 他们同时带来了犯罪、 性交易、暴力。 在加拿大，失踪、 遭受谋杀的原住民族女性 实在太多了， 人们因此发起抗议 及全国性的调查行动。 有数以千计的原住民族女性失踪、 遭受谋杀， 但在美国，我们甚至不会去追究， 我们得到的反而是： 我们的最高法院，美国最高法院 早在1978年夺去了我们的权力， 让我们无法和美国其他地方 有一样的起诉率。 因此，一个非原住民者 大可以到保留区里、强暴某个人， 而这个部落并没有 和其他地方相同的起诉权力， 并且40%的案子会被联邦政府拒绝。 曾经是76% 的概率。 三分之一的原住民族女性 在一生中有遭受过强暴的经历。 三个人中就有一个。
But in Standing Rock, you could feel the energy in the air. You could feel the resistance happening. People were standing and saying, "No more. Enough is enough. We will put our bodies in front of the machines to stop this project from happening. Our lives matter. Our children's lives matter." And thousands of allies came to stand with us from around the world. It was incredible, it was incredible to stand together, united as one.
但在立岩地区， 你可以感受到空气中的能量， 你可以感觉到抵抗正在发生。 大家站出来说：“ 到此为止 已经够了。 我们会以肉身阻挡机器， 来阻止这个计划实现。 我们的生命非常重要， 我们孩子的生命非常重要。” 全世界数以千计的盟友， 前来和我们并肩作战， 那很不可思议。并肩而立、 同心协力的感觉，很不可思议。
(Applause)
（掌声）
In my time there, I saw Natives being chased on horseback by police officers shooting at them, history playing out in front of my eyes. I myself was put into a dog kennel when I was arrested. But funny story, actually, of being put into a dog kennel. So we're in this big wire kennel with all these people, and the police officers are there and we're there, and we start howling like dogs. You're going to treat us like dogs? We're going to act like dogs. But that's the resilience we have. All these horrific images playing out in front of us, being an indigenous person pushed off of Native lands again in 2017. But there was such beauty. On one of the days that we faced a line of hundreds of police officers pushing us back, pushing us off indigenous lands, there were those teenagers out on horseback across the plains. They were herding hundreds of buffalo towards us, and we were crying out, calling, "Please turn, please turn." And we watched the buffalo come towards us, and for a moment, everything stopped. The police stopped, we stopped, and we just saw this beautiful, amazing moment of remembrance.
我在那里的时候， 我看到原住民族人 骑在马背上，被警察开枪追赶。 历史就在我眼前上演。 我自己被逮捕的时候， 被丢到狗笼里， 但其实在狗笼里的故事还蛮好笑的， 我们一群人被关在大铁笼里， 警察在那里，我们在那里， 然后我们开始学狗嚎叫。 你们要把我们当狗来对待吗？ 那我们就当狗给你们看！ 这就是我们的韧性。 在我们面前净是这些可怕的影像； 身为原住民族人， 在 2017 年，我们再次被赶出家园， 但这其中也有美的存在。 抗争的某一天， 我们面对一整排数百名的警察， 他们把我们向后推， 将我们推出故土。 那时，有一些青少年 骑着马穿越平原 他们把数百头野牛赶向我们， 我们大声疾呼： “ 请转向，请转向！” 然后，我们看着野牛朝我们过来， 在那一刻，一切都静止了。 警察停了下来，我们也停了下来。 我们就这样看着这美丽、 惊人、令人难以忘怀的时刻。
And we were empowered. We were so empowered. I interviewed a woman who had, on one day -- September 2nd, the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation had told the courts -- there's an ongoing lawsuit right now -- they told the courts, "Here is a sacred site that's in the direct path of the pipeline." On September 3rd, the following day, Dakota Access, LLC skipped 25 miles ahead in its construction, to destroy that site. And when that happened, the people in camp rushed up to stop this, and they were met with attack dogs, people, private security officers, wielding attack dogs in [2016].
我们因此获得力量， 我们充满着力量。 我访问过一位女性，她在某一天── 九月二日那一天， 立岩地区苏族保留地告诉法庭── 他们现在正持续在打官司── 他们告诉法庭： “ 管线的路径正好 经过一处神圣之地。” 九月三日，也就是隔天， 达科他输油管公司（Dakota Access） 跳过了 25 英里的建设进度， 抢先把那处神圣之地摧毁。 事件发生时，在营区 待命的人赶忙前去阻止， 他们遭受狗群攻击。 私人安保人员放出猛犬攻击人， 那时是 2017 年。
But I interviewed one of the women, who had been bitten on the breast by one of these dogs, and the ferocity and strength of her was incredible, and she's out right now in another resistance camp, the same resistance camp I'm part of, fighting Line 3, another pipeline project in my people's homelands, wanting 900,000 barrels of tar sands per day through the headwaters of the Mississippi to the shore of Lake Superior and through all the Treaty territories along the way. But this woman's out there and we're all out there standing together, because we are resilient, we are fierce, and we are teaching people how to reconnect to the earth, remembering where we come from. So much of society has forgotten this.
但我访问了其中一位女性， 她的胸部被其中一只狗咬伤， 而她的强悍和力量 很不可思议。 她现在已经复出， 在另一个抗争营区， 也就是我参加的阵营： 对抗三号线，那是在我族 土地上的另一个管道计划， 规划一天九十万桶的油砂运输量， 通过密西西比河上游， 到苏必略湖湖岸， 并一路穿越位于 该区域的原住民协定领地。 但这位女性仍在那里， 我们全都在那里，并肩作战， 因为我们韧性很强，我们很强悍， 我们在教导人们 如何与地球重新连结， 记得自己来自何处， 以及许多这些被社会大众遗忘的东西。
(Applause)
（掌声）
That food you eat comes from somewhere. The tap water you drink comes from somewhere. We're trying to remember, teach, because we know, we still remember. It's in our plants, in our medicines, in our lives, every single day.
你们吃的食物来自某处， 你们喝的自来水来自某处， 我们在试着去记得、教导， 因为我们知道，我们仍然记得， 它就蕴藏在我们的植物中、 药品中，在我们的生活之中， 每日皆如此。
I brought this out to show.
我带了这个来跟你们分享。
(Rattling)
（咯咯声）
This is cultural survival. This is from a time that it was illegal to practice indigenous cultures in the United States. This was cultural survival hidden in plain sight. This was a baby's rattle. That's what they told the Indian agents when they came in. It was a baby's rattle.
这是个文化遗物， 它从历史中幸存下来， 从那个美国原住民文化习俗 被法令禁止的时代幸存下来。 这是隐藏在醒目处的文化生存。 这是个婴儿手摇铃。 当时，印第安事务官 来盘查时，他们就是这么呈报的： 一个婴儿手摇铃。
But it's incredible what you can do when you stand together. It's incredible, the power that we have when we stand together, human resistance, people having this power, some of the most oppressed people you can possibly imagine costing this company hundreds of millions of dollars, and now our divestment efforts, focusing on the banks behind these projects, costing them billions of dollars. Five billion dollars we've cost them so far, hanging out with banks.
但当人们并肩团结时， 所能做到的事是很惊人的。 当我们团结一致时， 我们拥有的力量是惊人的。 人类的顽强，就是我们的力量。 那些你所能想到、 受到最多压迫的人， 实际上已造成 这间公司损失数亿美元。 现在，我们把努力的焦点放在 支持这些计划的银行，使他们撤资， 造成他们数十亿美元的损失。 目前，我们和银行联手， 已经让他们损失五十亿美元。
(Applause)
（掌声）
So what can you do? How can you help? How can you change the conversation for extremely oppressed and forgotten people?
那，你们能做什么呢？ 你们能帮上什么忙呢？ 你们想如何和这些 极度受迫并被以往的族群 开启新的对话？
Education is foundational. Education shapes our children. It shapes the way we teach. It shapes the way we learn. In Washington State, they've made the teaching of treaties and modern Native people mandatory in school curriculum. That is systems change.
教育是实现这些目标的基础。 教育形塑我们的孩童、 我们的教导方式， 也形塑我们的学习方式。 在华盛顿州， 他们将原住民条约及原住民族人现况 纳入学校必修课程。 这是体制的改变。
(Applause)
（掌声）
When your elected officials are appropriating their budgets, ask them: Are you fulfilling treaty obligations? Treaties have been broken since the day they were signed. Are you meeting those requirements? That would change our lives, if treaties were actually upheld. Those documents were signed. Somehow, we live in this world where, in 2017, the US Constitution is held up as the supreme law of the land, right? But when I talk about treaty rights, I'm crazy. That's crazy. Treaties are the supreme law of the land, and that would change so much, if you actually asked your representative officials to appropriate those budgets.
当你们选出的官员 在编列他们的预算时， 问他们：你们兑现了条约的义务吗？ 这些条约在签订的那天， 就已经被违反了。 你们达到这些要求了吗？ 如果条约确实得到维持， 那将会改变我们的生活。 我们确实已经签署了那些文件， 不知怎么的， 在2017年， 我们居住的这个世界里， 美国宪法被视为 这块土地的至上法律，对吧？ 但当我谈论条约权利， 我很疯狂。 那很疯狂。 条约才是这块土地的至上法律， 那将带来很大的改变， 如果你们确实要求民意代表 调整那些预算，
And take your money out of the banks. That's huge. It makes a huge difference. Stand with us, empathize, learn, grow, change the conversation. Forty percent of Native people are under the age of 24. We are the fastest-growing demographic in the United States. We are doctors, we are lawyers, we are teachers, we are scientists, we are engineers. We are medicine men, we are medicine women, we are sun dancers, we are pipe carriers, we are traditional language speakers. And we are still here.
还有，把你们的钱从银行取出来， 这些举动意义重大， 将会带来很大的不同。 与我们并肩吧，展现同理心、 学习、成长、改变对话。 24 岁以下的人占了 原住民族人口的 40%， 我们是美国人口中 成长最快速的族群。 我们是医生，我们是律师； 我们是老师，我们是科学家； 我们是工程师； 我们是男巫医，我们是女巫医； 我们是日舞者、神圣烟斗肩负者； （注：日舞为一种祭祀舞蹈仪式） 我们是说传统语言的人。 而我们还在这里。
Miigwech.
（奥杰布瓦语）谢谢。
(Applause)
（掌声）