I love infographics. As an information designer, I've worked with all sorts of data over the past 25 years. I have a few insights to share, but first: a little history.
﻿我爱信息图表。 作为一个信息设计师， 在过去25年中，我跟各种各样的数据打交道。 我有一些见解要分享，但首先讲点历史。
Communication is the encoding, transmission and decoding of information. Breakthroughs in communication mark turning points in human culture. Oracy, literacy and numeracy were great developments in communication. They allow us to encode ideas into words and quantities into numbers. Without communication, we'd still be stuck in the Stone Ages.
沟通是对信息的编码、传输和解码。 沟通的突破标志着人类文化的转折点。 在沟通方面，语言，文字和算术能力 得到了很大的发展。 它们让我们可以把想法编码为文字 并量化成数字。 没有沟通能力，我们就会被困在石器时代。
Although humans have been around for a quarter million years, it was only 8,000 years ago that proto-writings began to surface. Nearly 3,000 years later, the first proper writing systems took shape.
尽管人类已经存在25万年， 但人类最早期的书写浮出水面只有8千年。 在将近3000年后，首个合适的书写系统成形。
Maps have been around for millennia and diagrams for hundreds of years, but representing quantities through graphics is a relatively new development. It wasn't until 1786 that William Playfair invented the first bar chart, giving birth to visual display of quantitative information. Fifteen years later, he introduced the first pie and area charts. His inventions are still the most commonly used chart forms today. Florence Nightingale invented the coxcomb in 1857 for a presentation to Queen Victoria on troop mortality. Highlighted in blue, she showed how most troops' deaths could have been prevented. Shortly after, Charles Minard charted Napoleon's march on Moscow, illustrating how an army of 422,000 dwindled to just 10,000 as battles, geography and freezing temperatures took their toll. He combined a Sankey diagram with cartography and a line chart for temperature.
地图存在几千年，图表则有数百年之久， 但通过图形来表示数量 还是一个相对较新的发展。 直至1786年威廉·普莱费尔发明的首个条形图， 才催生了数量信息的视觉显示。 15年后，他引入了首个饼图和面积图。 他这些发明仍是今天最常使用的图表类型。 1857年弗洛伦斯·南丁格尔发明了锯齿图 来向维多利亚女王介绍部队死亡率。 蓝色强调部分， 她展示了军队的大多数死亡可以如何被避免。 不久之后，查尔斯·米纳德绘制了 拿破仑进军俄罗斯的图表， 展示了一支42.2万人的军队是如何 在战斗，地理和冰冻的影响下 付出惨痛代价减少到只有1万人的。 他将桑基图与制图学 和温度线图表结合在一起。
I get excited when I get lots of data to play with, especially when it yields an interesting chart form. Here, Nightingale's coxcomb was the inspiration to organize data on thousands of federal energy subsidies, scrutinizing the lack of investment in renewables over fossil fuels. This Sankey diagram illustrates the flow of energy through the US economy, emphasizing how nearly half of the energy used is lost as waste heat.
有很多数据可以摆弄总令我兴奋， 特别是当它产生一个有趣的图表形式时。 这里，奈廷格尔的锯齿图是 成千联邦政府能源补贴数据组织的最佳呈现， 审查了可再生能源投入相较化石能源的不足。 这个桑基图展示了美国经济中的能源流动， 强调了近一半的能源消耗是作为废热流失的。
I love it when data can be sculpted into beautiful shapes. Here, the personal and professional connections of the women of Silicon Valley can be woven into arcs, same as the collaboration of inventors birthing patents across the globe can be mapped.
我喜欢把数据雕刻成漂亮的形状。 这里，硅谷女性的个人和职业联系 可以被编织成弧线， 就跟全球范围内发明家的协作 可以映射出来一样。
I've even made charts for me. I'm a numbers person, so I rarely win at Scrabble. I made this diagram to remember all the two- and three-letter words in the official Scrabble dictionary.
我甚至为自己制作了图表。 我是个数字人，所以我很少在拼字比赛中获胜。  我做了这个图表来记住官方拼字字典里的 两个字母和三个字母的单词。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Knowing these 1,168 words certainly is a game changer.
知道这1168个单词显然是制胜法则。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Sometimes I produce code to quickly generate graphics from thousands of data points. Coding also enables me to produce interactive graphics. Now we can navigate information on our own terms.
有些时候我编写代码去把数千个数据点 快速生成图片。 编码也让我可以制作交互式图表。 现在我们可以根据自己的条件来导航信息。
Exotic chart forms certainly look cool, but something as simple as a little dot may be all you need to solve a particular thinking task. In 2006, the "New York Times" redesigned their "Markets" section, cutting it down from eight pages of stock listings to just one and a half pages of essential market data. We listed performance metrics for the most common stocks, but I wanted to help investors see how the stocks are doing. So I added a simple little dot to show the current price relative to its one-year range. At a glance, value investors can pick out stocks trading near their lows by looking for dots to the left. Momentum investors can find stocks on an upward trajectory via dots to the right. Shortly after, the "Wall Street Journal" copied the design.
奇异的图表当然看起来很酷， 但小至简单的一个点就足以满足你所需 去解决特定的思考任务。 2006年，纽约时报重新设计他们的市场板块， 将其从8页的股票清单削减到 只有1页半的基本市场数据。 我们列出了最常用的股票指标， 但我想帮助投资者了解这些股票表现如何。 所以我增加了一个简单小点 来展示现在价格在一年内的水平。 只需看一眼，价值投资者就可以通过靠近左边的点 去挑选出股价接近低位的股票。 短线投资者可以通过靠近右边的点 找出上升趋势的股票。 不久之后，华尔街日报复制了这个设计。
Simplicity is often the goal for most graphics, but sometimes we need to embrace complexity and show large data sets in their full glory. Alec Gallup, the former chairman of the Gallup Organization, once handed me a very thick book. It was his family's legacy: hundreds of pages covering six decades of presidential approval data. I told him the entire book could be graphed on a single page. "Impossible," he said. And here it is: 25,000 data points on a single page. At a glance, one sees that most presidents start with a high approval rating, but few keep it. Events like wars initially boost approval; scandals trigger declines. These major events were annotated in the graphic but not in the book. The point is, graphics can transmit data with incredible efficiency.
简单化通常是大部分图表的目标， 但有时候我们需要拥抱复杂 并在他们的全部荣耀中展示大量数据集。 亚力克·盖洛普，盖洛普公司的前主席， 有次给了我一本非常厚的书。 这是他们家族的遗产： 数百页纸涵盖了60年的总统支持率数据。 我告诉他整本书可以图表化在一页上。 “不可能”，他说。 这就是： 一页中展示25,000个数据点。 一眼就可以看出，多数总统以高支持率开场， 但很少能够维持。 像战争那样的事件最初会提升支持率； 丑闻会引发下降。 这些重要事件在图表中被注释，在书中可不行。 要点在于，图表可以以惊人的效率传输数据。
Graphicacy -- the ability to read and write graphics -- is still in its infancy. New chart forms will emerge and specialized dialects will evolve. Graphics that help us think faster or see a book's worth of information on a single page are the key to unlocking new discoveries. Our visual cortex was built to decode complex information and is a master at pattern recognition. Graphicacy enables us to harness our built-in GPU to process mountains of data and find the veins of gold hiding within.
书画刻印技能—— 读和写图的能力—— 仍然处于早期。 新的图表将会出现，特殊的方言将会发展。 图表可以帮我们更快地思考 或在一页纸上看到一本书的信息 是开启新发现的关键。 我们的视觉皮层是用来解码复杂信息的， 它是模式识别的大师。 图形化可以让我们利用我们的内置GPU 处理海量数据 去发现藏在里面的金子。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause and cheers)
（鼓掌）