It's 1996 in Uvira in eastern Congo. This is Bukeni. Militia commanders walk into his village, knock on his neighbors' doors and whisk their children away to training camps. Bukeni borrows a video camera from a local wedding photographer, he disguises as a journalist and he walks into the camps to negotiate the release of the children. He filmed footage of the children being trained as soldiers. [Soldiers don't worry!] [You'll wear uniforms!] [You'll have free cars!] [Free beans!] Many of these children are under 15 years old, and that is a war crime. [Free!]
﻿在1996年 在刚果民主共和国东部的乌维拉 这是布克尼 宾民指挥官走进他的村庄 敲开他邻居的门 用吹嘘的哨子将 他们的孩子叫到培训营里 布克尼从一个当地的 婚礼摄影师那里借了一台录像机 伪装成一个记者 然后他走进营里开始 进行释放孩子的谈判 他拍摄了孩子们 被培训成军人的过程 【军人们不要担心】 【你们身穿制服】 【你们有免费的车】 【免费的豆子】 在孩子们当中 许多在15岁以下 那是战争犯罪 【自由】
But you don't have to go to eastern Congo to find human rights abuses. In America, a country with a rapidly aging population, experts estimate that one in 10 people over 60 will experience abuse. It's a hidden epidemic, and most of that abuse actually happens at the hands of close caretakers or family.
但是你不需要去到东刚果民主共和国 去发现人权虐待 在美国，一个老龄化 迅速的国家 专家们预估在60岁以上 的人群中，每10个其中的一个 将会经历虐待 这是一个隐性的症状 大部分的虐待 实际上发生在 亲近的护理人员 或者家庭成员手上
This is Vicky. Vicky put an iron gate on her bedroom door and she became a prisoner, in fact, in her own house, out of fear for her nephew who had taken over her home as a drug den. And this is Mary. Mary picked up a video camera for the first time in her life when she was 65 years old, and she asked Vicky and 99 other older people who had experienced abuse to tell their stories on camera.
这是维基 维基在她的卧室门上 放了一个钢门 她成为了一个监狱的犯人 实际上，在她自己的房子里 出于对她侄子将她的房子 变成一个毒品制作工厂的恐惧 这是玛丽 玛丽在她生命中第一次 拿起了录像机 当她65岁的时候 她告诉维基和 其他99个老年人 都有过被虐待经历的人 在镜头前讲述他们的故事
And I am Dutch, so in the Netherlands we are obsessed with the truth. Now, when you are a child, that's a great thing, because you can basically get away with anything, like "Yes, Mama, it was me who smoked the cigars."
我是一个荷兰人 在荷兰，我们荷兰人 沉迷于真相 当你是一个小孩子的时候 那是一件事很棒的事情 因为你不必担心任何事情 就好像说“是的，妈妈 我是吸烟的那一个”
(Laughter)
（观众笑声）
But I think this is why I have dedicated my life to promoting citizen video to expose human rights violations, because I believe in the power of video to create undeniable truths. And my organization, WITNESS, helped use the Congolese videos to help convict and send a notorious warlord called Thomas Lubanga to jail. And the videos that Mary shot, we trained Mary and many other elder justice advocates, to make sure that the stories of elder abuse reached lawmakers, and those stories helped convince lawmakers to pass landmark legislation to protect older Americans.
但这正是为什么 我致力于我这一生 去倡导公民录下 以及揭露对人权的侵犯 因为我坚信在录像的力量中 可以创造不可否认的事实 我的组织，“目睹” 帮助使用刚果人录像 去帮助将臭名昭著的军阀 汤玛斯 鲁班噶定罪并送到监狱 玛丽拍摄的录像 我们对玛丽和其他年长的 公正倡导者进行培训 确保对年老人的虐待 会被送到国会议员那里 这些故事帮助说服 国会议员 通过标志性立法 来保护年老的美国人
So I wonder, billions of us now have this powerful tool right at our fingertips. It's a camera. So why are all of us not a more powerful army of civic witnesses, like Mary and Bukeni? Why is it that so much more video is not leading to more rights and more justice? And I think it is because being an eyewitness is hard. Your story will get denied, your video will get lost in a sea of images, your story will not be trusted, and you will be targeted.
所以，我在想 上亿人现在拥有这个强大的工具 就在我们的手上 那就是摄像机 那么为什么我们所有人没有成为一个 更强大的公民目击者军队 就好像玛丽和布克尼一样？ 是什么原因如此多的录像 没有带来更多的权利 以及更多的公正？ 我认为这是因为 作为一个目击者是不容易的 你的故事会被否认 你的录像会被遗失在 图像的海洋中 你的故事将不被信任 然后你会成为目标
So how do we help witnesses? In Oaxaca, in Mexico, the teachers' movement organized a protest after the president pushed down very undemocratic reforms. The federal police came down in buses and started shooting at the protesters. At least seven people died and many, many more were wounded. Images started circulating of the shootings, and the Mexican government did what it always does. It issued a formal statement, and the statement basically accused the independent media of creating fake news. It said, "We were not there, that was not us doing the shooting, this did not happen."
那么我们该如何帮助目击者呢？ 在瓦哈卡州，在墨西哥 教师运动组织了一个抗议 在总统推翻 非常不民主的改革之后 联邦警察坐巴士前来 开始对示威游行者射击 至少7人死亡 更多的受伤者 关于枪击的照片开始流传 墨西哥政府按照一贯的作风 发布了一个正式的声名 声名基本上是在 指控独立媒体 指控他们假造新闻 声名说，“我们当时不在那 不是我们进行的射击 这根本没有发生。”
But we had just trained activists in Mexico to use metadata strategically with their images. Now, metadata is the kind of information that your camera captures that shows the date, the location, the temperature, the weather. It can even show the very unique way you hold your camera when you capture something. So the images started recirculating, and this time with the very verifying, validating information on top of them. And the federal government had to retract their statement. Now, justice for the people for Oaxaca is still far off, but their stories, their truths, can no longer be denied.
但我们刚刚对墨西哥 的行动主义者做了培训 教授他们对他们的照片 策略性地使用元数据 现今，元数据是一种你可以用摄像机 捕捉的一种信息 它会显示日期，位置 温度，气候 它甚至可以显示你拿相机 的特殊方式 当你捕捉情景的时候 那么图像开始再流传 而这次是伴随着 非常有验证性的 有效的信息 联邦政府不得不 收回他们的声名 现今，公正对于瓦哈卡的人民来说 仍然很遥远 但是他们的故事，他们的真相 不会再被否认
So we started thinking: What if you had "Proof Mode?" What if everybody had a camera in their hands and all the platforms had that kind of validating ability. So we developed -- together with amazing Android developers called the Guardian Project, we developed something called a technology that's called Proof Mode, that marries those metadata together with your image, and it validates and it verifies your video. Now, imagine there is a deluge of images coming from the world's camera phones. Imagine if that information could be trusted just a little bit more, what the potential would be for journalists, for human rights investigators, for human rights lawyers.
于是我们开始想 如果你有“证明模式”呢？ 如果每个人手头上 有一台摄像机 所有的平台 有那种证实的能力，会怎么样 所以，我们发展了 和安卓发展人员一起 叫做监护项目 我们发展了叫做 证明模式的一种科技 它可以将你的照片和元数据 匹配在一起 验证和确认你的录像 想象现在一股洪水般的照片 来自于世界各地的手机摄像头 想象一下那些信息 可以被信任哪怕多一点点 对于新闻记者来说 意味着怎样的可能性 对于人权调查者来说 对于人权律师来说
So we started sharing Proof Mode with our partners in Brazil who are an amazing media collective called Coletivo Papo Reto. Brazil is a tough place for human rights. The Brazilian police kills thousands of people every year. The only time that there's an investigation, guess when? When there's video. Seventeen-year-old Eduardo was killed in broad daylight by the Rio police, and look what happens after they kill him. They put a gun in the dead boy's hand, they shoot the gun twice --
所以，我们开始和我们在巴西的 合作者分享证明模式 他们是很棒的媒体收集 叫做Coletivo Papo Reto 巴西是一个对于人权来说 很困难的地方 巴西警方每年处死 上千人 调查仅仅发生在 猜猜什么情况下？ 当有录像的时候 17岁的艾得多在光天化日之下 被处死 被里约警察 看看在他们处死他之后 发生了什么 他们将一把枪放在 已经死去的男孩的手中 他们开了2次枪
(Shot)
（射击）
to fabricate their story of self-defense. The woman who filmed this was a very, very courageous eyewitness, and she had to go into hiding after she posted her video for fear of her life. But people are filming, and they're not going to stop filming, so we're now working together with media collectives so the residents on their WhatsApp frequently get guidance and tips, how to film safely, how to upload the video that you shoot safely, how to capture a scene so that it can actually count as evidence.
去伪造他们自我防卫的假象 拍摄这个的女士 是一个非常勇敢的目击者 她在发布这个视屏之后 不得不躲藏起来 出于对她生命安全的恐惧 但是人们在拍摄 而且他们不会停止拍摄 所以我们现在合作起来 携手媒体收集 所以他们WhatsApp上的居住者 会经常收到指导和窍门 如何安全地拍摄 如何安全地上传 你拍摄的录像 如何捕捉一个情景 使得它实际上可以成为证据
And here is an inspiration from a group called Mídia Ninja in Brazil. The man on left is a heavily armed military policeman. He walks up to a protester -- when you protest in Brazil, you can be arrested or worse -- and he says to the protester, "Watch me, I am going to search you right now." And the protester is a live-streaming activist -- he wears a little camera -- and he says to the military policeman, he says, "I am watching you, and there are 5,000 people watching you with me." Now, the tables are turned. The distant witnesses, the watching audience, they matter.
这里是启示 从在巴西的一群叫做Mídia Ninja那里 左边的这个男人是一个重型 武装的军事警察 他走向一个抗议者 当你在巴西抗议游行的时候 你可以被逮捕或是有更坏的后果 他对抗议者说，“看着我 我现在将对你搜身。” 抗议者是一个 现场直播的行动主义者 他身上有一个小的摄像头 他对军事警察说 “我正看着你 这里有5000人正在 和我一起看着你 现在，局势扭转过来 目击者和观看者 的距离，很重要
So we started thinking, what if you could tap into that power, the power of distant witnesses? What if you could pull in their expertise, their leverage, their solidarity, their skills when a frontline community needs them to be there? And we started developing a project that's called Mobilize Us, because many of us, I would assume, want to help and lend our skills and our expertise, but we are often not there when a frontline community or a single individual faces an abuse. And it could be as simple as this little app that we created that just shows the perpetrator on the other side of the phone how many people are watching him. But now, imagine that you could put a layer of computer task routing on top of that. Imagine that you're a community facing an immigration raid, and at that very moment, at that right moment, via livestream, you could pull in a hundred legal observers. How would that change the situation?
于是我们开始想 如果你们可以发挥那股力量 远距离目击者的力量会怎样呢？ 如果你可以深入到他们的专长 他们的杠杆效应 他们的团结，他们的技巧 当一个在前线的群体 需要他们在那里的时候，会怎样呢？ 我们开始发展一个叫做 Mobilize Us 的项目 因为我们中的很多，我会设想 想要去帮助 借用他们的技巧和我们的专长 但是我们常常不在那儿 当一个前线社区 或是单独的个人 面对虐待的时候 它可以简单得就像 我们创造的小应用 仅仅对肇事者 显示手机另一端 有多少人在看着他 但是现在，想象一下你可以放 一层电脑任务的路由 在那上面 想象一下你是一个面对 移民袭击的社区 在那个非常时刻 就在那个时刻，通过直播媒体 你可以放进一百个 合法观察者 那会如何改变局势？
So we started piloting this with our partner communities in Brazil. This is a woman called Camilla, and she was able -- she's the leader in a favela called Favela Skol -- she was able to pull in distant witnesses via livestream to help translation, to help distribution, to help amplify her story after her community was forcibly evicted to make room for a very glossy Olympic event last summer.
所以我们开始和 在巴西的社区伙伴进行试点 有一个叫卡米拉的女士 她可以 -- 她是一个叫贫民窟Sko 的一个贫民窟的领导者 她能够使远距离的 目击者加入进来 通过在线媒体 帮助翻译 帮助发行 帮助放大她的故事 在她的社区被强行驱逐出去之后 在去年夏天，为了一个冠冕堂皇的 奥林匹克的举行
So we're talking about good witnessing, but what happens if the perpetrators are filming? What happens if a bystander films and doesn't do anything? This is the story of Chrissy. Chrissy is a transgender woman who walked into a McDonald's in Maryland to use the women's bathroom. Two teens viciously beat her for using that woman's bathroom, and the McDonald's employee filmed this on his mobile phone. And he posted his video, and it has garnered thousands of racist and transphobic comments. So we started a project that's called Capturing Hate. We took a very, very small sample of eyewitness videos that showed abuse against transgender and gender-nonconforming people. We searched two words, "tranny fight" and "stud fight." And those 329 videos were watched and are still being watched as we sit here in this theater, a stunning almost 90 million times, and there are hundreds of thousands of comments with these videos, egging on to more violence and more hate.
所以我们所谈论的是 好的目击 但如果肇事者在拍摄呢？ 如果旁观者拍摄了录像 但没有作为会怎样呢？ 这是克里斯的故事 克里斯是一个变性女士 他走进马里兰的一个麦当劳 使用女性洗手间 两个青少年对她进行毒打 因为她使用了女性洗手间 麦当劳的员工 用他的手机拍摄下来这个情景 他上传了这个录像 它囊括了 上千个关于种族的 和跨性别恐惧的评论 所以我们开始了一个叫做 Capturing Hate 的项目 我们将目击者的视屏 截取一段很小的片段 那些显示对变性人 和不对性别符合的人的虐待 我们搜索了两个词 “变性人斗争“和”学生斗争“ 这些329个被观看过的 以及正在被观看的录像 当我们坐在这个剧院里 惊人的9千万次 成百上千的评论 伴随着这个录像 煽动更多的暴力和憎恨
So we started developing a methodology that took all that unquantified visual evidence and turned it into data, turning video into data, and with that tool, LGBT organizations are now using that data to fight for rights. And we take that data and we take it back to Silicon Valley, and we say to them: "How is it possible that these videos are still out there in a climate of hate egging on more hate, summoning more violence, when you have policies that actually say you do not allow this kind of content? -- urging them to change their policies.
所以我们开始发展一个方法 将所有的没有量化的视觉证据 转化成数据 将录像转化成数据 有了那个工具 LGBT组织现在使用那个数据 去为了权力进行斗争 我们将数据带回到硅谷 我们对他们说 怎么可能 这些录像还在那里流传 在一个充满了憎恨的气候下 煽动更多的憎恨 招致更多的暴力 当你们有政策实际上说 你不允许有这样的内容？ 催促他们改变他们的政策
So I have hope. I have hope that we can turn more video into more rights and more justice. Ten billion video views on Snapchat, per day. So what if we could turn that Snapchat generation into effective and safe civic witnesses? What if they could become the Bukenis of this new generation?
所以我有希望 我希望我们可以将 更多的录像转变成更多的权利和公正 Snapchat上有 10亿录像浏览次数 每天 如果我们可以将Snapchat那一代 转变成 有效的，安全地公民目击会怎样呢？ 如果他们可以成为这新一代的 布克尼会怎样呢？
In India, women have already started using Snapchat filters to protect their identity when they speak out about domestic violence. [They tortured me at home and never let me go out.] The truth is, the real truth, the truth that doesn't fit into any TED Talk, is fighting human rights abuse is hard. There are no easy solutions for human rights abuse. And there's not a single piece of technology that can ever stop the perpetrators. But for the survivors, for the victims, for the marginalized communities, their stories, their truths, matter. And that is where justice begins.
在印度，女人已经 开始使用Snapcha过滤 在她们讲述家庭暴力的时候 保护她们的身份 【他们在家虐待我 从来不让我出门】 真相是，真正的事实，事实 没有适合任何TEDTalk的 是为了人权虐待的斗争是如此艰难 对人权虐待没有容易的解决方法 没有一样单独的科技 可以阻止肇事者 但对于幸存者来说 对于受害者 对于边缘化的社区 他们的故事，他们的真相，重要 那就是公正开始的地方
Thank you.
谢谢
(Applause)
（观众掌声）