‘Embrace the Green’ for a sustainable Bayer future 
2019-03-29
Bayer Crop Science said it’s sticking to technology innovation to help tackle in a sustainable way the challenges facing the agricultural sector for the benefit of farmers, consumers and our planet. 
The non-profit training project “Agriculture Green Capacity Building Action Plan” jointly launched by the National Agricultural Technology Extension and Service Center, under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, and Bayer Crop Science seeks to help participants build up their own capacities and skills and foster talent for green agriculture and quality development in China. 
The “Agriculture Green Capacity Building Action Plan” (“Embrace the Green” program) plans to cover all provinces and autonomous regions across the country within the next five years. 
“Sustainable and environmental friendly crop protection technology promotion is key to green agriculture,” commented director Liu Tianjin of the National Agricultural Technology Extension and Service Center. 
More than 180 professionals from the agricultural industry took part in the kick-off event and attended the first training session in Yangzhou City in Jiangsu Province last week. 
 Liu also urged all participants to stay focused, be innovative and integrate various technologies and to contribute to a safe, high quality and environmentally friendly system. 
The “Embrace the Green” program launched jointly by NATESC and Bayer aims to leverage best international practices and foster advocates of green technologies by targeting key players.
“Under the complicated situation of increasing downward pressure on the economy and profound changes in the external environment, it is of special importance to do a good job in agriculture and rural areas,” the State Council said in an official mandate in February. 
The rural rejuvenation strategy is a pillar of the country’s work and the training program has also been included as an important topic in the Sino-German agricultural cooperation framework. 
The “Embrace the Green” program aims to promote and localize the latest concepts, technology and practices of agricultural green development. 
“High quality agricultural development benefits from a healthy ecological environment, while sustainable agriculture protects and promotes improvements in the ecological environment,” said China Country Head of Bayer Crop Science Huang Weidong.  
“With the mission of Science for a Better Life, Bayer Crop Science is dedicated to bringing innovative products and technology to China, supporting Chinese growers with enhanced efficiency and quality.”  
The training sessions brought participants the latest international concepts, standards, technology and practices. 
The training sessions have been catering to the needs of the agricultural industry and crop growers to cover topics such as interpretation of agricultural policies and green development concepts, green development skills, innovation practices, specific needs of the characteristic industry for green development and soft skill development.
In the future, it will also adopt various forms such as lectures, field visits, online webcasts and interactive seminars. 
In Hanjiang District in Yangzhou City, a number of crop growers have already adopted a new method to eradicate weed from wheat fields to ensure the yield and crop quality. For Bayer, the methods to promote ecologically friendly agricultural practices may vary, but the principle of a foundation in the market and creating value for growers remains unchanged.
Chen Yi and Feng Sheng are among the farmers in the Hanjiang District that have used Bayer’s herbicides. 
“Sometimes I had to use herbicides twice in one wheat season now I need to use Bayer’s Bacara Forte only once in less volume which ensures the wheat yield,” said Chen. 
Bayer’s innovative solution on weed control, which combines the use of its herbicides Bacara Forte with Sigma/Sigma Broad, is different from traditional weed control methods. The combination can control weeds in wheat fields effectively, especially in the Yangtze valley and also manage weed resistance by combining various modes of actions.  
In 2019, the “Embrace the Green” program is expected to be implemented in six provinces and autonomous regions, including Jiangsu, Shandong, Tibet, Inner Mongolia, Sichuan and Guangxi, and will be co-organized by relevant provincial level crop protection organizations.
