Alibaba’s FlyZoo: the place to get away from those pesky humans 
2019-01-24
Gliding silently through Alibaba Group Holding Ltd’s futuristic “FlyZoo” hotel, black disc-shaped robots about a meter tall deliver food and drop off fresh towels.
The robots are part of a suite of high-tech tools that Alibaba says drastically cuts the hotel’s cost of human labor and eliminates the need for guests to interact with other people.
Formally opened to the public last month, the 290-room FlyZoo is an incubator for technology Alibaba wants to sell to the hotel industry in the future and an opportunity to showcase its prowess in artificial intelligence.
It is also an experiment that tests consumer comfort levels with unmanned commerce in China.
“It’s all about the efficiency of the service and the consistency of service, because the robots are not disturbed by human moods. Sometimes, we say we are not in the mood, but the system and the robot will always be in the mood,” said Andy Wang, CEO of Alibaba Future Hotel Management, the unit that oversees the hotel.
Inside the hotel, softly-lit white paneled walls bring to mind the interiors of Hollywood spaceships.
Guests check in at podiums that scan their faces, as well as passports or other ID.
Visitors with a Chinese national ID can scan their faces using their smartphones to check in ahead of time.
Elevators scan guests’ faces to verify which floor they can access and room doors are opened with another scan.
“It’s very quick and safe. I haven’t used it for a long time yet, but basically, I can be in my room in one minute,” said guest Tracy Li.
Li added that safety was one of her priorities and she was pleased her room could only be entered with a scan of her face.
In the rooms, Alibaba’s voice command technology is used to change the temperature, close the curtains, adjust the lighting and order room service.
At the hotel’s restaurant, taller capsule-shaped robots deliver food that guests have ordered via the FlyZoo app while at a separate bar, a large robotic arm can mix more than 20 different types of cocktails. Facial recognition cameras add charges to the room rate automatically.
To check out, guests press a button on the app after which the room locks and they are automatically charged through Alibaba’s online wallet.
Once this is done, the guests’ facial scan data is immediately erased from Alibaba’s systems.
FlyZoo — whose name derives from a pun in Chinese for “it’s a must to stay here” — is in Hangzhou, 170 kilometers southwest of Shanghai, and is within walking distance of Alibaba’s headquarters.
Room fees start from 1,390 yuan (US$205) a night.
