Equality, mutual respect key to negotiations 
2019-05-31
WHETHER or not China and the United States can make progress in their trade negotiations largely depends on the attitude and sincerity of the US side, China’s Ministry of Commerce said yesterday.
The consultations can continue only on the basis of equality and mutual respect, MOC spokesperson Gao Feng said at a press conference.
The wrong practice by the US side of escalating trade frictions and spreading them to other fields has seriously damaged the basis and atmosphere of the consultations, Gao said, noting that “the responsibility lies entirely with the US side.”
Gao said that the information from the US side has been somewhat inconsistent, which called into question its sincerity.
Gao said that China has always believed that cooperation is the only correct choice for China and the United States.
There are principles for cooperation and a bottom line for consultation, he said.
“The Chinese side will never accept any agreement that undermines national sovereignty and dignity. China will never give in on major issues of principle,” Gao said.
If an agreement is to be reached, the US side needs to show its sincerity, properly address the core concerns raised by the Chinese side and continue consultations on the basis of equality and mutual respect, he said.
Despite the US-imposed tariffs on Chinese products, the enthusiasm of foreign companies to invest in China remains undiminished, Lu Kang, spokesman of foreign ministry said yesterday.
He cited a survey released by the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China on business confidence.
He noted that 62 percent of the respondents view China as one of the top three destinations for current and future investment, while 56 percent of the respondents plan to increase investment in China, according to the survey.
Enterprises always choose their investing countries and cooperating partners based on their own interests and market principles, said Lu, adding that China’s door of opening-up will always remain open.
“We always welcome foreign enterprises to invest in China and launch mutually beneficial cooperation, and we are committed to providing foreign investors with a fairer, more transparent, stable and predictable investment environment,” Lu said.
Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said recently that his country will use Huawei technology “as much as possible.” He also reportedly said the United States must accept that its strong research and development capability could also now be found in the East.
In response, Lu said developing countries, like China and Malaysia, have the right to advance their technological abilities, and it was in the interests of all countries to achieve common development and progress through mutually beneficial cooperation.
He said certain countries should listen carefully to the “true and fair” words of Prime Minister Mahathir, and see the development of developing nations as opportunities.
Responding to US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s claim that Huawei was an instrument of the Chinese government, Lu said the United States had fabricated a series of topics to influence public opinion against Huawei.
