These two Kenyan ladies were best friends from neighboring villages, but they'd stopped seeing each other, literally, for 10 years, because both had gone blind from a curable condition called cataracts. They hadn't been aware they'd been sat together for over an hour when we offered them surgery at the nearest hospital. Mama Jane, on the right, told me her biggest fear was that she would poison her grandson, whom she'd never seen, because she couldn't see what she was cooking for him. Her arms were covered in burns from cooking on a charcoal stove, and she despaired that she was robbing her six-year-old grandson of his childhood because he was effectively her eyes. The effect of her blindness was going through the generations. He wasn't able to go to school or break the cycle of poverty. All of this, despite cost-effective solutions existing. Cataract surgery can be done in under 10 minutes for just a hundred dollars. Four in every five people who are blind don't need to be; curative or preventive treatments already exist. Fortunately for Mama Jane and her friend, a donor had provided treatment so that we could take them to the nearest hospital three hours away.
﻿这两位肯尼亚女士是 来自临近村庄的好朋友， 但实际上，她们已经长达10年没见面了， 因为她们都因一种叫做白内障 的可治愈疾病而失明。 当我们在最近的医院给她们做手术时， 她们没觉察到她们坐在一起 超过一个小时了， 简妈妈，右边那位，告诉我 她最大的恐惧是害怕毒到她孙子， 那位她看不见的孙子， 因为她看不见给他煮的是啥。 她的手臂被炭炉煮过的东西烧伤了， 她绝望地说，她正在剥夺 她六岁孙子的童年， 因为他实际上在扮作她的眼睛。 她失明的影响代代相传。 他无法去上学或打破贫穷的循环。 所有这些，尽管有效的治疗方法存在。 白内障手术可以在10分钟内完成， 只需要100美元。 80%的盲人本可以被治愈； 治疗或预防治疗早已经存在。 幸运的是对简妈妈和她的朋友来说， 捐赠提供了治疗， 所以我们可以带她们到三个小时远 的最近的医院。
But in that very same clinic, I met Theresa, a shy young woman who couldn't look me in the eyes, not because she couldn't see, but the appearance of the growth on her eyes called pterygium meant she'd lost her confidence, and with it, her place in her community. She had no prospects for marriage or children and had been completely ostracized. I knew how to treat her condition; it was pretty straightforward. But we had strict instructions that the funds we had were for people with cataracts. What was I supposed to do? Ignore her?
但在同一个诊所， 我遇到了特丽萨， 一个不敢用眼睛直视我的年轻害羞女性， 不是因为她不能看见， 而是因为她眼睛上长出来的翼状胬肉 让她失去自信， 让她失去在社区的位置。 她结婚或生孩子无望 并完全被人排斥。 我知道如何治疗她的问题；这非常直接。 但是我们有严格的规定，我们的资金 只能用于治疗白内障。 我应该怎么做？ 忽视她？
My wife and I managed to raise the funds to cover her treatment, but situations like Theresa were common every day, where people had the wrong diseases. And by the "wrong diseases," I mean conditions for which funding hadn't been earmarked. Earmarking may seem like smart business or smart philanthropy on paper, but it doesn't make any sense when you're looking the person in the eye. Yet, this is how we deliver health care to millions of people the world over.
我妻子和我能募集资金来支付她的治疗， 但像特丽萨的人每天都很常见， 在那里人们有错误的疾病。 关于“错误的疾病”， 我意思是资金用途中没有指定的疾病。 在纸面上，专款似乎是明智的 商业行为或明智的慈善行为， 但当你看着这些人的眼睛时， 它一点都不合理。 然而，这就是我们向全世界数百万人 提供医疗保健的方式。
I've been thinking about this problem for a very long time. Things happened to me at the age of 12 that completely transformed my life. My teachers insisted that I would go for an eye test. I resisted it for as many years as I could because as the only brown boy in the school, I already felt like a chocolate chip in rice pudding, and the idea of looking more different was not particularly appealing. You see, I'd associated an eye test with wearing glasses and looking different, not with seeing differently. When eventually I was persuaded to go, the optometrist fitted me with the trial lenses and was shocked at just how poor my sight was. He sent me outside to report what I could see. I remember looking up and seeing trees had leaves on them. I had never known this. Later that week, for the first time, I saw stars in the night sky. It was breathtaking.
我已经思考这个问题很长时间了。 12岁那年发生的事情完全 改变了我的生活。 我教师坚持要我去参加视力检查。 我尽可能地拒绝了好多年， 因为作为学校中唯一一个棕色儿童， 我已经觉得自己像米饭布丁 里的一块巧克力， 看起来更与众不同的想法 并不特别吸引人。 你知道，我把验光和戴眼镜联系起来， 这看着不同， 而非看到不同的东西。 当最终我被说服去检查了， 验光师给我配了试镜镜片， 并被我糟糕的视力震惊到了。 他让我到外面去报告我所看到的。 我记得向上看到了树有树叶。 我从不知道这个。 那个星期晚些时候， 我第一次在夜空中看到星星。 真是激动人心。
In fact, the entire trajectory of my life changed. I went from a failing child at school who was constantly told I was lazy and not paying attention to suddenly being a child with opportunity and potential. But I soon realized that this opportunity was not universal. That same summer, in Egypt, the home where my parents are originally from, I was with children that looked a lot more like me but couldn't have been more different. What separated us was opportunity. How is it that I had this life and they had theirs? It still makes no sense to me. How is it we've -- in a world where glasses, that completely changed my life have been around for 700 years, yet two and a half billion people still can't access them.
事实上，我整个人生轨迹都改变了。 我从一个在学校经常被视为懒惰， 无法集中注意力的 懒惰儿童， 突然变成一个充满机遇和潜力的儿童。 但我很快意识到这个机遇不是普遍的。 同个夏天，在埃及， 我父母的老家， 我和那些看起来更像 我的孩子们在一起， 但没有比这更不同的了。 把我们分开的是机会。 为什么我有这样的生活， 而他们有他们的生活？ 这对我来说仍然很不合理。 怎么会—— 这个世界中，完全改变我的生活的眼镜 已经存在700年之久， 然而仍有25亿人没法获得他们。
This deep sense of injustice drove me to become a doctor, eventually an eye surgeon, and in 2012, my wife and I packed our bags and moved to Kenya to try and give something back. We started by setting up a hundred eye clinics across the Great Rift Valley, where we met people like Mama Jane and Theresa. We founded a new organization called Peek Vision, a social enterprise where we built smartphone technology that makes it possible for people in the community to find people in their homes, the most vulnerable groups who are being missed, and created new tools that made it easier to diagnose them and connect them to services. Inspired by the challenges I'd had as a child, we equipped teachers, 25 of them, with smartphones to screen children in schools. Our first program resulted in 21,000 children being screened in just nine days. That same program was replicated to reach 200,000 children, covering the entire district. Soon we were able to repeat this in six new programs in different countries.
这种深深的不公平感驱动我成为了医生， 最终成为一名眼科医生， 并在2012年，我妻子和我 打好包袱搬到肯尼亚 来试图回馈当地。 我们开始沿着大裂谷设立 上百家眼科诊所， 在那里我们遇到了像简妈妈和 特丽萨这样的人。 我们成立了一个叫皮克眼科的组织， 这个社会企业，通过开发的智能手机技术 来让社区人们 能够发现他们家中 那些被忽略的脆弱群体， 并通过开发新的工具让诊断和获取服务 变得容易。 受我儿时经历的启发， 我们配备了老师，25个人，通过智能手机 来在学校中筛查儿童。 我们的首个项目在只有9天的时间里 就筛查了21000名儿童。 同样的项目被复制到20万名儿童， 覆盖了整个区。 很快我们就能够在不同的国家 的6个新项目中重复这个过程。
But now, I was faced with the very same problems I had with Theresa of earmarked funds, but now as an organization. People wanted to fund specific projects or particular diseases or subsets of the population. But it didn't make sense, because what we needed to do was build an incredible team who could create the systems that would change the lives of millions of people, whatever their needs were. But it didn't work that way. Soon, we were able to align ourselves with partners who understood, because I understand the challenge. Ultimately, you need to trust where your money's going, and that trust usually manifests through the requirement to create detailed plans -- lots of paperwork.
但现在，我遇到了跟特丽萨类似的 专项基金的难题， 现在是作为一个组织遇到。 人们想要资助特定的项目 或者特定的疾病 或者特定子集的人群。 但这点不合理， 因为我们要做的是建立 一个了不起的团队， 这个团队创建的系统可以改变 数百万人的的生活， 不管他们的需要是什么。 但事情却不是这样运作的。 不久，我们能够与理解的伙伴结盟， 因为我理解这个挑战。 说到底，你需要信任你的钱的去向， 这种信任通常是通过要求 制作详细的计划来体现的 ——数不清的文书工作。
But what happens if the dynamic needs of people don't fit with the plan that you created, and your funding is dependent on delivering the plan? You end up with a choice: Do you serve the plan, the funder, or do you serve the need? This is not a choice we should have to make, because ultimately, we can only serve one master.
但如果人们多变的需求不符合 你制定的计划怎么办？ 你的基金仍然要依赖于完成计划？ 你最终得做出选择： 你是服务这个计划，你的出资人， 还是服务需求？ 这个选择不应该是我们要去做的， 因为最终，我们只能服务一个主人。
The measure of our humanity is how we serve the most vulnerable amongst us. Currently, the system is not working, and too many people are being left behind. We've been fortunate to find incredible supporters and partners, which led to a new program in Botswana, in which every single schoolchild is being screened and treated by the end of 2021, meaning an entire generation of children will have the opportunity that good vision affords. But this took years of work. It took multiple feasibility studies, engaging different partners and stakeholders, business cases, economic analyses, to persuade the government to eventually come on board. But they're now leading and funding this in their own national budget. But we did not have the resources to do this. Our visionary funders and partners came alongside us, and the key ingredients were we were aligned on mission, on the why we were doing it. We agreed on the outcome, what had to be done. But critically, they were flexible and gave us autonomy to work out how we got there, giving us the space to be creative, ambitious and take risk. What if all health care looked like this? What would it mean for all the social causes we're trying to solve?
衡量我们人性的尺度 在于如何服务我们中间最脆弱的人。 目前，这个系统不奏效， 很多人被抛在后面。 我们有幸能够找到 了不起的支持人和伙伴， 并在博茨瓦纳开启了一个新项目， 这个项目是到2021年每个学生都能被 筛查和治疗， 这意味着整一代的儿童 都会获得好视力带来的机遇。 但这花了好多年的努力。 它进行了多次可行性研究， 接触不同的伙伴和股东， 商业场景，经济分析， 去说服政府最终同意。 但现在他们在自己的国家预算中 领导和资助这个项目。 但我们并没有资源来做这件事情。 我们富有远见的资助者 和合作伙伴与我们并肩同行， 关键在于我们的使命一致， 我们做这些事的动机一致。 我们对结果，对需要做的事情意见一致。 但重要的是，他们很灵活， 给了我们自主权 去找到如何达到目标， 给了我们创造、雄心和冒险的空间。 如果所有的医疗都如此操作会怎样？ 这对我们要解决的社会问题意味着什么？
Business knows this. By taking a long-term, ambitious view and giving people the autonomy to be creative to solve our world's biggest challenges, we've disrupted entire industries. Look at Amazon, Google. Surely, we need the same level of ambition if we're going to serve the most vulnerable in our societies. As a planet, we've set a target, the Sustainable Development Goals, yet we're spending less than half the amount on tackling the global goals than we are on conflict resolution, which mostly arises from the very inequalities we're not serving. It's time for change. It's not just common sense as well -- it makes business sense. Our work in Botswana showed for a modest investment, the economy would gain 1.3 billion dollars over the lifetime of the children. That was 150 times return on investment.
商业清楚这点。 以长远，雄心壮志的眼光看问题 并且给人们自主的创造力 来解决我们世界上的最大挑战， 我们会颠覆整个行业。 看看亚马逊，谷歌。 显然，我们需要同等的抱负， 如果我们要为最弱势的群体服务。 作为一个地球，我们设定了一个目标， 可持续发展目标， 然而，我们在解决全球目标上的支出还没有 我们解决冲突支出的一半， 主要是因为我们没有服务的不平等。 是时候做出改变了。 这不仅是常识，在商业上也是合理的。 我们在博茨瓦纳的工作显示 只需要小的投入，儿童的成人后就能让经济 增加13亿美元。 投资回报率为150倍。
But part of the problem is that value is generated in the future, but we need the money now to deliver it. Turns out, this is not a new problem. Banks have been solving it for centuries. Simply put, it's called financing. If you want to buy a house but you can't afford to pay for it up front, the bank financiers, you see, can realize that future value now. In other words, you can live in the house straightaway. But what if you couldn't? What if you had to wait until you'd raised all of the money to move into the house, and you were kept homeless whilst trying to save the money to get there in the first place? You'd end up in an impossible cycle, never able to get there, yet that's this very same bind we've put on ourselves.
但部分问题在于 这个价值是未来产生的， 但我们现在就需要金钱去交付它。 事实表明，这不是个新问题。 几个世纪来，银行都在解决这个问题。 简单地说，这就叫融资。 如果你想要买个房子， 但你无法预先支付， 银行的金融家，现在就能够 意识到未来的价值。 换句话说，你可以直接住进房子里去。 但如果你不能够呢？ 如果你得等你把所有钱都凑齐了 才能住进房子， 并且一开始你就得努力赚钱 却又无家可归呢？ 你最终就会陷入不可能的循环， 永远不可能到那， 然而这正是我们对我们自己施加的束缚。
Inspired by the change in Botswana and by the visionary support of our funders and partners, we've come together -- two world-leading banks, for-profit and private, not-for-profit organizations, foundations and philanthropists -- to launch the Vision Catalyst Fund, a fund which will have trust built in by design. It will make funding available now to the organizations that can serve the need of the most vulnerable. It will ensure that those organizations can work together in partnership, rather than competing for limited funds, serving the priority needs of an entire population, whatever they are, so that ultimately the individuals affected can receive the care that they deserve.
灵感来自于博茨瓦纳的变化 以及资助者和合作伙伴的远见支持下， 我们走到了一起，两家世界领先的银行， 营利性和非营利性组织， 基金会和慈善家， 发起了视力促进基金， 一种设立之初就建立信托的基金。 现在，它将能够向 满足最脆弱群体需求的组织提供资金。 它会确保这些组织可以通力合作， 而不是竞争有限的基金， 服务整个人类的优先需求， 不管它们是什么， 这样最终受影响的个人 可以得到应得的照顾。
And as we've shown, it doesn't make just a health and social difference, it creates huge economic benefit. This benefit in itself will create sustainability to perpetuate a virtuous, catalytic cycle of improvement and change. Because when we do this, the individual needs of people like myself can be met. And this coalition has come together this year to make a commitment with 53 heads of government, who have now committed to take action towards achieving access to quality eye care for all. We've had incredible commitments of 200 million pairs of glasses to the fund and millions of dollars, so that the dynamic and individual needs of people -- like my own issues that I had as child, and like Theresa, who just required simple surgery -- can be met.
正如我们所展示的， 这不仅对健康和社会有影响， 它创造了巨大的经济效益。 这个效益本身会保持 一个良性的循环， 催化提升和改变的循环。 因为当我们做这些了， 像我自己那样有需要的 人们的需求就可以被满足。 这个联盟今年走到了一起 让53位政府首脑作出承诺， 他们现在承诺采取行动， 为所有人提供高质量的眼部护理。 基金收到了难以置信的 2亿副眼镜的承诺 和数百万美元的资助， 所以个人不同的需求—— 比如我还是孩子时遇到的问题， 以及像特丽萨，只需一个简单手术的人—— 可以被满足。
For Theresa, it meant her place back in society, now with her own family and children. And for Mama Jane, it wasn't just restoring her sight, it meant the opportunity to restore hope, to restore joy and to restore dignity.
对特丽萨，这意味着她社交的回归， 现在已经有了自己的家庭和孩子。 而对于简妈妈，这不仅 只是恢复她的视力， 这意味着恢复希望， 恢复欢乐 和恢复尊严的机遇。
(Music)
（音乐）
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）