It's Christmas Eve, 1968. The Apollo 8 spacecraft has successfully completed its first three orbits around the moon. Launched from Cape Canaveral three days before, this is the first time that humans have ever traveled beyond low Earth orbit. On the vessel's fourth pass, the Earth slowly comes into view and reveals itself above the Moon's horizon. Astronaut Bill Anders frantically asks his crewmates where their camera is, grabs the Hasselblad, points it towards the window, presses the shutter, and takes one of the most important photographs of all time: "Earthrise."
﻿那是1968年圣诞前夜 阿波罗8号太空船成功完成了 首次绕月三周的飞行 它是三天前从 卡纳维拉尔角发射的 这是第一次 人类冲出近地球轨道 在飞船的第四次飞越中 地球慢慢进入视野 缓缓出现在月球的地平线上 宇航员比尔·安德斯发疯似的 问自己的同伴相机在哪里 他抓起一部哈苏相机 对准窗外 按下了快门 拍下了人类历史上 最重要的照片之一 地球初升
When the crew was safely home a few days later, they were asked about the mission. Anders famously replied, "We went to the moon, but we actually discovered Earth."
几天后 当宇航员们安全返回地球 被问及这次太空任务时 安德斯做了个著名的回答 “我们去了月球 但实际上我们发现了地球”
What did he and his fellow crewmates feel in this incredible moment? In a study released just this past year, a team of researchers at the University of Pennsylvania examined the testimonies of hundreds of astronauts who had the opportunity to view the Earth from space. Their analysis uncovered three common feelings: first, a greater appreciation for Earth's beauty; second, an increased sense of connection to all other living beings; and third, an unexpected, often overwhelming sense of emotion. The researchers believe that seeing the Earth from a great distance provokes someone to develop new cognitive frameworks to understand what they are seeing. They believe these astronauts were forever changed by this new view, this new perspective, this new visual truth. This feeling is commonly referred to as the "overview effect."
在那个令人振奋的时刻 他和其他宇航员 到底有怎样的感受呢 在去年发布的一项研究中 宾夕法尼亚大学的 一支研究团队 研究了数百名宇航员的证词 他们都曾从太空中观察过地球 他们的分析揭示了三种普遍的感受 首先 被地球的美丽 所深深折服 其次 感觉与其他物种 有了更紧密的联系 第三点比较意外 就是感受到压倒性的情绪 研究者认为 从遥远的距离看地球 会引发他们 产生新的认知框架 来理解他们所看到的 他们相信这些宇航员 被这全新的视野 全新的视角 全新的视觉真相 永久的改变了 这种感受通常被称为 “全景效应”
Only 558 people have ever been to outer space. 558 people had the opportunity to gaze down in awe, to wonder at our planet floating in an infinite sea of darkness. But what if that number were bigger?
一共只有558人 曾经进入过外太空 558人有机会 怀着敬畏之心俯瞰地球 惊叹于我们的星球 漂浮于无尽的黑暗之海 那如果更多的人有这样的机会呢
Three years ago, I set off on my own mission: to see if I could bring this feeling of overwhelming scale and beauty to many more people just by using one small computer in my small New York City apartment. It was then, in 2013, that I launched "Daily Overview." Every day, I have used satellite imagery to create one expansive overhead view of our planet. More than 1,000 of these images have been created thus far, and more than 600,000 people tune in for this daily dose of perspectives. I create the imagery by curating photos from the massive archive of a satellite company called Digital Globe. They operate a constellation of five satellites, each roughly the size of an ambulance, that is constantly taking pictures of the Earth as they orbit at 28,000 kilometers per hour.
3年前 我开始了一项 属于自己的任务 看能不能将这种无法抗拒的 尺度和美丽带来的震撼 带给更多的人 仅仅用一台小小的电脑 在我纽约的小公寓里 就这样 在2013年 我开始了“每日全景”项目 每天我都使用卫星图像 来创作一幅广阔的 地球鸟瞰风景照 到目前为止已经创作了 超过1000幅作品 超过60万人 每天都来感受这神奇的风景 我创作的这些图像 都挑选自一个巨大的照片档案库 来自一家叫做 “数字地球”的卫星公司 他们运营着一组卫星 一共5颗 每一颗差不多有 一辆救护车那么大 当它们以28000公里的时速 沿轨道飞行的时候 会不断的给地球拍照
Now, what does this mean? Each of these satellites is equipped with a camera that has a focal length of 16 meters, so that's roughly 290 times greater than a DSLR camera equipped with a standard 55 millimeter lens. So if were able to attach one of their satellites to the roof of this theater in Oxford, we could take a picture of a football, clearly, on the pitch at the stadium in Amsterdam. That's 450 kilometers away. That's incredibly powerful technology. And I decided at the beginning of this project that I would use that incredible technology to focus on the places where humans have impacted the planet.
那么这意味着什么呢 每一个卫星都装备了摄像头 它们的焦距达到了16米 差不多相当于 配有55毫米标准镜片的 数码单反镜头的290倍 所以如果我们能够 在牛津的这个剧院的屋顶 放置一颗这样的卫星 就可以拍下放在 阿姆斯特丹体育场草皮上 一枚足球清晰的照片 这两个位置相距450公里 这技术简直不可思议 在这个项目的开始 我就决定了 要运用这一强大的技术 来聚焦地球上 那些被人类深刻影响的地区
As a species, we dig and scrape the Earth for resources, we produce energy, we raise animals and cultivate crops for food, we build cities, we move around, we create waste. And in the process of doing all of these things, we shape landscapes and seascapes and cityscapes with increasing control and impunity. So with that in mind, I would like to share a few of my overviews with you now.
作为一个物种 我们在地球上开采资源 我们生产能源 饲养动物 种植粮食作为食物 我们建造城市 四处迁徙 我们生产垃圾 在做这些事情的过程中 我们也改变着陆地和海洋 以及城市的面貌 而且越来越有恃无恐 那么基于我刚才说的 现在我来跟大家分享 一些我制作的全景图
Here we see cargo ships and oil tankers waiting outside the entry to the port of Singapore. This facility is the second-busiest in the world by terms of total tonnage, accounting for one-fifth of the world's shipping containers and one half of the annual supply of crude oil.
这里我们可以看到货船和油轮 等待驶入新加坡港 按照总吨位来算 它是世界第二繁忙的港口 转运着全世界五分之一的集装箱 以及全球一半的 原油年运输量
If you look closely at this overview, you'll see a lot of little specks. Those are actually cows at a feedlot in Summerfield, Texas, in the United States. So once cows reach a particular weight, roughly 300 kilograms, they are moved here and placed on a specialized diet. Over the next three to four months, the cows gain an additional 180 kilograms before they are shipped off to slaughter. You're also probably wondering about this glowing pool at the top there. That gets its color from a unique combination of manure, chemicals and a particular type of algae that grows in the stagnant water.
如果你仔细看这张图 你会发现很多细小的斑点 那些其实是饲养场的牛 位于美国德克萨斯州的 萨默菲尔德 当牛的体重达到某个数值 大概300公斤左右 它们就会被运到这里 接受某种特殊的喂养 在接下来的3-4个月里 这些牛会增重180公斤 然后被运到屠宰场 你也许还会好奇顶端那个 色彩艳丽的池塘是什么 那种颜色是粪便 化学物质 和某种生长在静置 污水中的藻类的结合物
This is the Mount Whaleback iron ore mine in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, a beautiful yet scary scar on the face of the Earth. Of the world's mined iron ore, 98 percent is used to make steel and is therefore a major component in the construction of buildings, automobiles or appliances such as your dishwasher or refrigerator.
这是鲸背山铁矿 位于澳大利亚西部 皮尔巴拉地区 一条地球上美艳 却有点骇人的伤疤 在全世界开采的铁矿石中 98%用来炼钢 所以它是建筑物的一种主要原料 还广泛用于汽车和电器制造 比如洗碗机或者电冰箱
This is a solar concentrator in Seville, Spain. So this facility contains 2,650 mirrors which are arrayed in concentric circles around an 140-meter-tall tower at its center. At the top of the tower, there is a capsule of molten salt that gets heated by the beams of light reflected upwards from the mirrors below. From there, the salt circulates to a storage tank underground, where it produces steam, which spins turbines and generates enough electricity to power 70,000 homes and offsets 30,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions every year.
这是位于西班牙塞维利亚的 太阳能聚光电站 这个设施一共有2650面镜子 排列成同心圆 中心是一座 140米高的塔 在塔的顶端 有一个隔间装满了熔盐 被由下方的镜子反射上来的 光柱加热 盐从那里循环进入到 地下的存储舱 在那里产生蒸汽 推动涡轮机发电 产生足以满足7万个 家庭使用的电量 每年还能减少 3万吨的二氧化碳排放
This overview shows deforestation in Santa Cruz, Bolivia immediately adjacent to untouched tracts of rainforest. Deforestation in the country has primarily been driven by the expansion of mechanized agriculture and cattle ranching, so as the country tries to meet the demand of its growing population and feed them, the sacrificial destruction of its rainforest has taken place to do so. It is estimated that the country lost 4.5 million acres of rainforest in one decade alone from 2000 until 2010.
这张全景图显示的是 玻利维亚圣克鲁兹的森林砍伐区域 与未遭破坏的大片雨林紧密相连 这个国家的森林砍伐主要是受到 农业机械化和畜牧业 发展的驱动 随着国家正试图 满足人口增长的需要 并为他们提供食物 只能靠牺牲雨林 来实现这个目标 据估算 从2000年到2010年 仅仅在10年之间 玻利维亚就失去了 450万英亩的雨林
This is the Eixample district in Barcelona, Spain. So the overview perspective can be incredibly helpful to help us understand how cities function and how we can devise smarter solutions for urban planning, and this will become only more relevant as it is expected that 4.9 billion people will live in cities around the world by the year 2030. This area of Barcelona is characterized by its strict grid pattern, apartments with communal courtyards and these octagonal intersections which allow for more sunlight, better ventilation and additional parking at street level.
这是西班牙巴塞罗那的扩展区 这种全景视角能非常有效地 帮助我们理解城市功能 以及我们如何更好地 进行城市规划 而且这只会变得越来越重要 因为据估算 到2030年 全世界会有49亿人口 居住在城市里 巴塞罗那的这个区域非常有名 规整的网格图案 带有公共庭院的公寓 以及八角形的十字路口 有利于更多的采光 更好的通风 以及更多的街边停车位
And here we see that grid pattern but under much different circumstances. This is the Dadaab Refugee Camp in northern Kenya, the largest such facility of its kind in the world. To cope with the influx of refugees who are fleeing Somalia, where there is famine and conflict, the UN has built this area gridded out at left called the LFO extension to house more and more refugees who are arriving and occupying these white dots, which are actually tents which will slowly fill up the area over time.
这张图里我们也看到了网格图案 但却是在非常不同的背景下 这是位于肯尼亚北部的 达达阿布难民营 世界上面积最大的难民营 为了接收大批 逃离索马里的难民而建 那里饥荒和冲突不断 联合国将这块区域 划成网格形状 称之为LFO扩展区 以便安置越来越多的难民 他们源源不断前来 占据图上这些小白点 这些点实际上是帐篷 它们会慢慢填满这个区域
So if you have one of these overviews, you have a moment in time. If we have two overviews, however, we are able to tell stories about changes in time. I call that feature of the project "Juxtapose," and we'll share a few examples of it with you now.
那么如果你有一张全景图 你就拥有了时间中的一瞬间 如果我们有两张全景图 那我们就可以讲述 时间流逝带来的变化了 我将这个项目的特性称为“并列” 下面我来举几个例子
So the tulip fields in Netherlands bloom every year in April. So we take an image captured in March a few weeks before and contrast it to one taken a few weeks later. We're able to watch the flowers bloom in this magnificent cascade of color. It is estimated that the Dutch produce 4.3 billion tulip bulbs every year.
荷兰的郁金香 会在每年4月绽放 于是我们在花开前几周 在3月拍一张照片 然后与几周后的 另一张进行对比 我们能看到花海的颜色 像瀑布般流淌 据估计 荷兰每年 生产43亿朵郁金香
In 2015, two dams collapsed at an iron ore mine in southeastern Brazil, causing one of the worst environmental disasters in the history of the country. It is estimated that 62 million cubic meters of waste were released when the dams broke, destroying numerous villages in the process, including Bento Rodrigues, seen here before ... and after the flood. Ultimately, 19 people were killed in this disaster. Half a million people did not have access to clean drinking water for an extended period of time, and the waste soon entered into the Doce River, extended for 650 kilometers all the way into the sea, killing unknowable amounts of plant and animal life along the way.
2015年 在巴西东南部的 一座铁矿 有两座水坝倒塌 造成了这个国家历史上最严重的 环境灾难之一 据估算 6200万立方米的废铁水 在大坝倒塌时被释放出来 摧毁了许多村庄 包括班托罗德里格斯 这是洪水前的景象 这是洪水后 最终 这场灾难造成19人丧生 50万人在很长的一段时间内 没有清洁的饮用水 废铁水很快流入了多希河 一路奔流650公里 流入大海 沿途夺去了不计其数的 动物和植物的生命
And lastly, here is a story related to the crisis in Syria, a conflict which has claimed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and displaced millions. So this patch of desert is seen in Mafraq, Jordan in 2011, the year the conflict started, and when we compare it to an image captured just this year in 2017, we see the construction of the Zaatari refugee camp.
最后这个故事跟叙利亚危机有关 这场冲突已经夺去了 成千上万人的生命 让数百万人无家可归 这片沙漠是约旦的马弗拉克 时间是2011年 冲突爆发的那一年 我们将其与2017年的 照片进行对比 我们看到的是扎塔里难民营
So just as the astronauts of Apollo 8 watched the Earth rising above the lunar landscape for the first time, there is no way that you could have imagined what the places I just showed you look like from outer space. And while you may enjoy the aesthetics of an image, once you learn exactly what it is you're seeing, you may struggle with the fact that you still like it. And that's the tension I want to create with my work, because I believe it is that contemplation, that internal dialogue that will lead to greater interest in our planet and more awareness of what we're doing to it.
所以就像阿波罗8号的宇航员们 第一次看到地球 从月球表面升起一样 你根本无法想象 我刚刚给你们看的地方 从外太空看起来是什么样 可能你会欣赏这些图像的美 然而一旦你真正了解 自己所看到的 可能你就会开始纠结 是否你仍然喜欢它 而这恰恰就是我想 通过我的作品来实现的 因为我相信 正是这种沉思 这种内心的对话 会引导我们对地球 产生更浓厚的兴趣 对我们的所作所为 有更多的意识
I believe that viewing the Earth from the overview perspective is more important now than ever before. Through the incredible technology of these high-flying cameras, we can see, monitor and expose the unprecedented impact that we are having. And whether we are scientists or engineers or policymakers or investors or artists, if we can adopt a more expansive perspective, embrace the truth of what is going on and contemplate the long-term health of our planet, we will create a better and safer and smarter future for our one and only home.
我坚信 从全景的视角来看地球 比以往任何时候都重要 借助这些位于高空中 卫星上的惊人技术 我们能观察 监控和揭露 那些我们所带来的空前影响 无论我们是科学家 工程师 还是政策制定者 无论是投资者还是艺术家 如果我们能以更广阔的视角 来正视事实的真相 深思地球长远的健康 我们一定可以创造一个更好的 更安全和更智能的未来 为了我们唯一的家园
Thank you.
谢谢大家
(Applause)
（观众掌声）