For the last five years, I have documented the lives of teenage mothers in Latin America. I started with a series of photographs about the moment of birth in my country, Uruguay.
﻿过去五年 我纪录下了一些拉丁美洲的少女妈妈们的生活 我是从在我的祖国乌拉圭 拍摄的一系列 孩子出生时的照片开始的
(Video) (Screaming)
（视频）（叫声）
(Grunting)
（咕哝声）
(Newborn crying)
（新生儿哭声）
I am the son of a teenage mother and my sister became a teenage mother when she was 16. I began exploring the theme to better understand myself and my origins.
我是一个少女妈妈的儿子 而我的姐姐在16岁的时候也成为了一名少女妈妈 我开始去探索这个主题 以便更好的了解自我以及自己的出身
In developing countries, 7.3 million girls under the age of 18 give birth each year. Projections suggest that the teen pregnancy rate in Latin America will be the highest in the world for the next 80 years. In Mexico, almost one in two sexually active adolescents get pregnant between the ages of 12 to 19 years old. Teenage pregnancy is not just about young pregnancies. It is about gender violence, physical, symbolic, psychological and economic violence. Girls who become pregnant before they are 18 rarely achieve an adequate standard of living. The pattern of poverty and limited access to education and health care are a common thread among teen pregnancies. If a girl in Latin America gets pregnant before she is 16, the risk of maternal death increases fourfold over a woman in their 20s. And somehow, in spite of all this, motherhood also imparts a status and a respect to the adolescent in her community. Her child becomes her life project. A high percentage of girls under the age of 18 are single mothers, as was my mother.
在发展中国家 每年有730万18岁以下的女孩 生下了自己的孩子 预测结果显示 拉丁美洲的少女怀孕率 在接下来的80年 将会是全球最高的 在墨西哥，几乎一半性行为活跃的青少年 在12到19岁就怀孕了 少女怀孕不仅仅是年纪轻轻就怀孕的问题 它还跟性别暴力 身体上、象征性、心理上以及经济上的暴力有关 那些18岁前就怀孕的少女 很少能维持一个基本的生活水准 贫穷、受教育程度低 以及有限的卫生保健资源 是这些少年孕妇的共同命运 如果在拉丁美洲一个少女在16岁前就怀孕了 那么这个孕妇死亡的风险会增加到 一个20来岁的孕妇的4倍 但不知为什么，尽管如上面所说的那样 母亲的身份还是在社区中 给予了她一个地位和尊重 她的小孩成为了她的生活的主题 有很大比例的18岁以下的女孩是单身妈妈 就像我妈妈那样
When I was learning to be a parent, I began to focus on the relationship between father and child, a subject rarely given much attention. I wanted to highlight the ways in which we need to educate boys differently without turning them into macho men. In some cases, families send boys to school but not girls. The persistence of teen pregnancy heightened the gender equity gap and the continued existence of traditional roles. If we were to allow equal opportunities to girls, they could gain independence. Educating girls is key to breaking cycles of teen pregnancies. Girls getting pregnant between the ages of 10 to 14 are an extremely vulnerable population, and they can be easy prey for men twice their age. There are many cases of violence, incest and sexual abuse perpetrated against this group.
当我学着为人父母时 我才开始关注父亲和小孩之间的关系 这是一个很少获得关注的主题 我想要强调 我们要换一种方式去教育男孩子 不要将他们都变成男人 有时候，家里会送男孩去上学，但是不会送女孩 青少年怀孕的持续性加重了性别不平等 以及传统角色的持继存在 如果我们允许女孩子拥有相同的机会 她们是可以获得独立的能力 对女孩子的教育 是打破青少年怀孕的恶性循环的关键 在10到14岁之间怀孕的女孩 是一个极度脆弱的人群 她们可以轻易的成为年龄比她大一倍的男人的猎物 有很多针对这个人群犯下 暴力、乱伦以及性虐待 罪行的案例
This is Gloria. She became a teen mother at the age of 12, a result of the ongoing abuse by her father, who was also raping Gloria's two sisters, ages 8 and 16. In this portrait, she has butterflies in her hair, symbols of resurrection. For me, it's extremely important to portray this mother with dignity.
这是歌莉娅 她12岁就成为了一名少女妈妈 这是她父亲持续虐待的结果 他还强奸了歌莉亚的两个姐妹 她们分别是8岁和16岁 在这张照片上，她的头上有两个蝴蝶结 那象征着重生 对我来说，带着尊严来拍摄这个母亲是非常重要的
Pregnancies among girls younger than 15 is a growing trend, not only in Latin America, but many developing countries in the world. Our region is marred by bad social and cultural inequalities, and teen pregnancy further increases this divide. I am committing to being part of the solution by making work that implicitly and emphatically calls for human rights for girls. The day life projects for boys and girls become similar, teenage pregnancy will decrease.
15岁以下的少女怀孕呈现一个增长趋势 不仅仅是在拉美地区 而且在很多发展中国家也是这样 我们这个地区被坏的社会和文化不平等所困扰 而青少年怀孕问题进一步增加了这种分裂 我将致力于通过我的作品 默默地着重地为女孩们的人权呼喊 下定决心帮助她们解决问题 等到哪天男孩和女孩拥有了相似的生活主题 青少年怀孕就会大幅减少了
Thank you.
谢谢
(Applause)
（掌声）