We've had it all wrong. Everybody. We've had it all wrong. The very last thing we need to do is clean the ocean. Very last. Yeah, there is a garbage truck of plastic entering the ocean every minute of every hour of every day. And countless birds and animals are dying just from encountering plastic. We are experiencing the fastest rate of extinction ever, and plastic is in the food chain. And I'm still here, standing in front of you, telling you the very last thing we need to do is clean the ocean. Very last.
﻿我们都错了 各位 我们都彻底搞错了 我们最不需要做的事情 就是清理海洋 非常没有必要 是的，有一辆卡车装满塑料垃圾 驶向大海 这发生在每一天 每一小时的每一分钟 不计其数的鸟类和动物 仅仅因为接触塑料就会死亡 动物正以最快的速度灭绝 塑料已经进入了食物链 而我还站在这里 告诉大家，我们最不需要做的事情 就是清理海洋 完全不需要
If you were to walk into a kitchen, sink overflowing, water spilling all over the floor, soaking into the walls, you had to think fast, you're going to panic; you've got a bucket, a mop or a plunger. What do you do first? Why don't we turn off the tap? It would be pointless to mop or plunge or scoop up the water if we don't turn off the tap first. Why aren't we doing the same for the ocean? Even if the Ocean Cleanup project, beach plastic recycling programs or any well-meaning ocean plastic company was a hundred percent successful, it would still be too little, too late.
如果你走进厨房 发现水已经涌出水池 地板上到处是水 墙壁也已浸湿 你脑子转的飞快，你可能惊慌起来 你有一个桶、一把拖布和一个搋子 你会先做什么呢？ 为什么不关上水龙头？ 如果我们不先关上水龙头 拖地，通下水道或舀水 都是毫无意义的 我们为什么不对海洋也这样做呢？ 虽然现在有海洋清理项目 沙滩塑料回收项目 以及其他善意的 处理海洋塑料的公司 这些项目都非常成功 但它们依然力量薄弱，而且出现得太晚
We're trending to produce over 300 million ton of plastic this year. Roughly eight million ton are racing to flow into the ocean to join the estimated 150 million ton already there. Reportedly, 80 percent of ocean plastic is coming from those countries that have extreme poverty. And if you live in the grips of poverty concerned, always, about food or shelter or a sense of security, recycling -- it's beyond your realm of imagination.
今年人类预计会 产生超过3亿吨塑料 其中，大约800万吨塑料垃圾 会快速流入海洋 而海洋中已经存在约1.5亿吨垃圾 据报道，海洋中80%的塑料 都来自极度贫困的国家 如果你生活困苦 总是担心吃饭问题 住宿问题 或是人身安全问题 回收垃圾 是件超乎你想象的事
And that is exactly why I created the Plastic Bank. We are the world's largest chain of stores for the ultra-poor, where everything in the store is available to be purchased using plastic garbage. Everything. School tuition. Medical insurance. Wi-Fi, cell phone minutes, power. Sustainable cooking fuel, high-efficiency stoves. And we keep wanting to add everything else that the world may need and can't afford.
而这个事实 也正是我创办塑料银行的原因 我们是世界上规模最大的 针对极端贫困人群的连锁商店 商店中的任何物品 都可以通过塑料垃圾进行换购 所有的物品都可以 例如学费 医疗保险 Wi-Fi、手机通话时长或是电力 厨用燃料，节能炉 我们也一直在添加其他商品 这些商品可能是贫困人群 需要但支付不起的东西
Our chain of stores in Haiti are more like community centers, where one of our collectors, Lise Nasis, has the opportunity to earn a living by collecting material from door to door, from the streets, from business to business. And at the end of her day, she gets to bring the material back to us, where we weigh it, we check it for quality, and we transfer the value into her account. Lise now has a steady, reliable source of income. And that value we transfer into an online account for her. And because it's a savings account, it becomes an asset that she can borrow against. And because it's online, she has security against robbery, and I think more importantly, she has a new sense of worth. And even the plastic has a new sense of value. Hm.
我们在海地的连锁商店更像是社区中心 在那里 其中一位垃圾收集者 丽萨·纳西斯 拥有了维持生计的机会 她挨家挨户 在大街上 去企业里收集塑料材料 末了，她将这些材料交给我们 我们对材料进行称重，质量检查 然后将等价的钱转入她的账户 现在，丽萨拥有一个 稳定可靠的收入来源 我们将这些钱转存到她的网上账户 由于这是一个储蓄账户  它成了一笔资产 丽萨可以取出使用 也因为这是网络账户 她免于受到抢劫等带来的损失 我认为更重要的是 她实现了新的自我价值 即便是这些塑料 也有了新的价值
And that plastic we collect, and we add value to, we sort it, we remove labels, we remove caps. We either shred it or we pack it into bales and get it ready for export. Now, it's no different than walking over acres of diamonds. If Lise was to walk over acres of diamonds but there was no store, no bank, no way to use the diamonds, no way to exchange them, they'd be worthless, too. And Lise was widowed after the 2010 Haitian earthquake, left homeless without an income. And as a result of the program, Lise can afford her two daughters' school tuition and uniforms.
对于我们收集的塑料 我们同样赋予它们价值 我们将其分类 去掉标签 去掉盖子 我们或是将其粉碎 或是将其打包准备出口 现在，这和走在布满钻石的田野上没什么不同 如果丽萨本在这片田野上 但那里没有商店和银行 没有途径去使用和交易钻石 这些钻石也会毫无价值 在2010年海地地震后 丽萨失去了丈夫 无家可归，身无分文 由于这个项目 丽萨现在可以承担两个女儿的学费 还有她们的校服
Now, that plastic we sell. We sell it to suppliers of great brands like Marks and Spencer, who have commissioned the use of social plastic in their products. Or like Henkel, the German consumer-goods company, who are using social plastic directly into their manufacturing. We've closed the loop in the circular economy. Now buy shampoo or laundry detergent that has social plastic packaging, and you are indirectly contributing to the extraction of plastic from ocean-bound waterways and alleviating poverty at the same time.
现在，对于这些塑料 我们将其卖出 卖给那些知名公司 例如马莎百货 它已安排在生产过程中使用这些社会化塑料 再比如汉高公司 它是一家德国消费品公司 它直接在生产中使用社会化塑料 我们闭合了 循环经济的最后一环 现在，当你在购买洗发水 或者洗衣液之类 一些用社会化塑料包装的商品时 你就间接地 为减少海洋塑料污染 和缓解贫困做出了贡献 一举两得
And that model is completely replicable. In São Paulo, a church sermon encourages parishioners to not just bring offering on Sunday, but the recycling, too. We then match the church with the poor. Or, I believe more powerfully, we could match a mosque in London with an impoverished church in Cairo. Or like in Vancouver, with our bottle-deposit program: now any individual or any group can now return their deposit-refundable recyclables, and instead of taking back the cash, they have the opportunity to deposit that value into the account of the poor around the world.
这种模式 完全可以复制 在圣保罗 教堂的布道鼓励教区居民 不仅要在周日带来献品 同时也要带来回收物品 由此我们将教堂和贫困人群联结在一起 甚至，我有更大的设想 我们可以将伦敦的清真寺 与开罗贫困的教堂联结起来 或者比如在温哥华 我们开展了“存瓶子”项目 现在，任何个人 任何组织 都能通过归还那些可回收物品 来收回当时支付的费用 他们并非会将这些利益化为己用 而是有机会将这些钱 存入世界上贫困人群的账户
We can now use our recycling to support and create recyclers. One bottle deposited at home could help extract hundreds around the world. Or, like Shell, the energy company, who's invested in our plastic-neutral program. Plastic neutrality is like carbon-neutral. But plastic neutrality invests in recycling infrastructure where it doesn't exist. And it provides an incentive for the poor by providing a price increase. Or -- like in the slums of Manila, where the smallest market with a simple scale and a phone can now accept social plastic as a new form of payment by weight, allowing them to serve more people and have their own greater social impact.
我们现在可以通过回收 支持和产生新的回收者 一个存放在家的瓶子 能够帮助减少全世界成百上千个瓶子 或者比如壳牌公司 一家能源公司 投资了我们的塑料中和项目 塑料中和类似于碳中和 但塑料中和项目投资的是 目前尚不存在的回收性基础设施 它通过提供更高的价格 来激励穷人 或者 例如，马尼拉的贫民窟中 在最小的市场上 用一个秤和手机 就可以接收社会性塑料 作为一种新型的用称重支付的方式 这使得那里的人们能为更多人群提供资源 也使他们自己产生了更大的社会影响
And what's common here is that social plastic is money. Social plastic is money, a globally recognizable and tradable currency that, when used, alleviates poverty and cleans the environment at the same time. It's not just plastic. It's not recycled plastic, it's social plastic, a material whose value is transferred through the lives of the people who encounter it, rich and poor.
这些行动的共同点在于 社会性塑料 就是金钱 社会性塑料就是金钱啊 它是一种全球认可  并且可用于交易的货币 使用它可以缓解贫困，清洁环境 一举两得 它不仅是塑料 也不仅是可回收塑料  它是具有社会性质的塑料 这种材料的价值 可以通过它的接触者的生活而实现转移 不论贫富
Humans have produced over eight trillion kilograms of plastic, most of it still here as waste. Eight trillion kilograms. Worth roughly 50 cents a kilo, we're potentially unleashing a four-trillion-dollar value. See, I see social plastic as the Bitcoin for the earth --
人类已经生产出 超过8万亿千克塑料 其中的大多数仍然以废物的形式存在 这8万亿千克 以大约每千克50美分的价格估值 我们就潜在地拥有了一笔4千亿美元的财富 因此，我把社会性塑料看成是 地球的比特币
(Laughter)
（笑声）
and available for everyone.
并且每个人都能拥有
Now the entire ecosystem is managed and supported through an online banking platform that provides for the safe, authentic transfer of value globally. You can now deposit your recyclables in Vancouver or Berlin, and a family could withdraw building bricks or cell phone minutes in the slums of Manila. Or Lise -- she could deposit recycling at a center in Port-au-Prince, and her mother could withdraw cooking fuel or cash across the city. And the app adds rewards, incentives, group prizes, user rating. We've gamified recycling. We add fun and formality into an informal industry. We're operating in Haiti and the Philippines. We've selected staff and partners for Brazil. And this year, we're committing to India and Ethiopia. We're collecting hundreds and hundreds of tons of material. We continue to add partners and customers, and we increase our collection volumes every day. Now as a result of our program with Henkel, they've committed to use over 100 million kilograms of material every year. That alone will put hundreds of millions of dollars into the hands of the poor in the emerging economies.
现在，我们的整个生态系统 都通过网络银行平台进行管理和支持 这些网络平台面向全球提供安全可靠的价值转移 不管是在温哥华或柏林  你提供你的可回收物物品时 在马尼拉贫民窟的一个家庭 可以因此获得 建筑用砖或是手机通话时间 再来看丽萨 她在太子港的回收中心提供回收垃圾时 她的母亲可以在城市任何地方 用这些换取厨用燃料或者兑换现金 这个应用也添加了回报 奖励 小组奖励 用户排名 我们将回收活动游戏化 我们让这个未成型的产业 变得有趣和正式起来 我们在海地和菲律宾设有运营处 我们为巴西挑选了员工 与合作伙伴 今年 我们承诺进入印度和埃塞俄比亚 我们正在收集成百上千吨塑料 我们正在收集成百上千吨塑料 我们持续增加合作伙伴 扩展更多用户 收集到的塑料数量每天都在增加 通过与汉高公司合作项目 他们已承诺每年使用1亿公斤以上的回收塑料 他们已承诺每年使用1亿公斤以上的回收塑料 仅这一项就可以使 新兴经济体中的贫困人群 获得数亿美元
And so now, we can all be a part of the solution and not the pollution.
因此如今 我们所有人 都可以成为解决污染的一员 而不是制造污染的一员
And so, OK, maybe cleaning the ocean is futile. It might be. But preventing ocean plastic could be humanity's richest opportunity.
也许清理海洋是无用功 也许真是这样 但是防止海洋遭到塑料污染 也许是人类最宝贵的机会
Thank you.
谢谢大家
(Applause)
（掌声）