I teach history at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. On February 14, 2018, my school experienced one of the worst mass school shootings in American history. People want to know what we saw, what I felt. I don't remember everything, but I do remember I went into crisis mode, mother mode. There was no emotion. I lined up the kids, I held up a sign so they could follow me through the hall, just like a fire drill. I heard shots from one direction. Luckily, we were already moving in the opposite direction.
﻿我在玛乔里斯通曼道格拉斯中学 教历史。 在2018年2月14号， 我的学校经历了美国历史上 最严重的校园枪击事件。 人们希望知道我们看见了什么， 我感觉到了什么。 我不记得所有事情， 但是我记得我进入了危机模式， 自然的母性模式。 不带任何情感。 我为孩子们整队， 并举起牌子所以他们可以跟随我穿过走廊， 就像一场消防演习。 我听到枪声从一头传来。 幸运的是，我们已经走到了另一头。
We made it outside. We made it to safety. I called my mother. "I'm OK." I called my husband. "I'm OK." Then my daughter called, my voice cracked, and I knew I had to pull myself together. I sat alone in my thoughts, worried about my colleagues and students. We sat there, only understanding that somehow, Valentine's Day -- We sat there, only understanding that somehow, Valentine's Day had ended up with our babies dead, and we didn't know what to do next.
我们逃出来了。 我们逃到安全的地方去了。 我打电话给母亲。 “我没事。” 我打电话给丈夫。 “我没事。” 然后我的女儿打来电话，我声音变得嘶哑， 但我知道我要恢复镇定。 我独坐时陷入思考， 开始担心我的同事与学生。 我们坐在那里，仅知道，情人节—— 我们坐在那里，仅知道，情人节 已经伴随着我们宝贝们的死亡而结束了， 我们不知道接下来该怎么做。
It's been two months, and every day I still hear the echoes of the "pop, pop" sound of the gunfire. I remember the fearful faces of my students when we knew it wasn't a drill. Still, there's no constant emotion, except for flashes of pain, grief and anger triggered by the news, or an insensitive comment, or just silence.
事情已经过去两个月了， 但每天我仍能听到“砰，砰“的枪声回响。 我记得当我们知道这不是一个演习后， 我的学生们惧怕的神情。 然而，那里没有不变的情感， 除了被新闻、 或者一个漠然的评论、 抑或只是沉默激起的 短暂的痛苦，悲伤与愤怒。
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School lost 17 precious lives on that horrible day. After, students asked us, the adults the hardest question: How can we stop the senseless violence? This was the most difficult question I've been asked. But it was not the first time I've been humbled by a student's question.
玛乔里斯通曼道格拉斯中学 在那个可怕的一天 失去了17条珍贵的生命。 后来，学生问了我们大人 一个最难回答的问题： 我们如何能够阻止这样无意义的暴力行为？ 这是我被问到的最难回答的问题。 这不是我第一次被学生的问题难倒。
I've been teaching in the public schools for 33 years, so I know you have to admit what you don't know before you can share what you do know. In fact, there's a method to being an engaged student, teacher, citizen. First, listen closely to the person asking you a question. Second, admit your vulnerability. Admit what you don't know. Third, do your homework. Fourth, humbly share your knowledge.
我已经在这个公立学校教学33年了， 所以我知道在分享我知道的事情前， 先承认我不知道什么。 事实上，有个方法去做一个积极参与的学生， 老师或公民。 首先，听清楚那个人问你的问题。 然后，承认你的弱点。承认你不知道的事情。 再后，做功课。 最后，谦逊地分享你的知识。
I know all about this process. My students ask really thoughtful questions all the time. They're eager to learn, and sometimes they're eager to prove their smarts. And believe me, they know when I have no idea of the answer, so in those instances, I say to them, "That's a great question. Let me research that and get back to you."
我知道这个方法的整个流程。 我的学生总是问我深刻的问题。 他们渴望学习， 而且有些时候他们渴望证明他们的才智。 并且相信我，他们知道 我什么时候不知道答案， 所以在那些情况下，我告诉他们， “这是一个极好的问题。 让我去查一下然后回复你。”
So when my students asked, "How do we stop this senseless violence?" I listened, and then I admitted, "I don't know." And like I always do when I don't know the answer to one of my questions, I began doing my homework. And as a history teacher, I knew I needed to start with the Second Amendment and the NRA.
所以当我的学生问我， “我们如何能够阻止这样无意义的暴力行为？” 我聆听， 然后我承认， “我不知道。” 像往常不知道问题的答案时那样， 我开始做功课。 作为一个历史老师。 我知道我应该从第二修订案和 美国步枪协会（NRA)开始。
In case it's been a while since you've been sitting in a history class, here is what the Second Amendment actually says: "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed." Meaning, the federal government could not infringe on the rights of citizens to participate in well-regulated militias. The Second Amendment was ratified 226 years ago. It was written in a time before the federal government's armed forces were among the most powerful in the world and when state militias were viewed as necessary to protect the states.
以防你太久没上历史课了， 这是第二修正案 所写： “纪律优良之民众武装， 乃自由邦国安全所必需， 故人民持有并携带武器之权 不受侵犯。” 意思是，联邦政府不可以侵犯公民 参与纪律优良的民兵武装的权利。 第二修正案在226年之前被正式批准。 它在联邦政府的武装力量 独步世界之前被写就， 而当时州民兵被认为对保卫国家十分重要。
Fast-forward 80 years, to 1871. The American Civil War had ended a few years prior, but a couple of Union officers had witnessed some pretty shoddy marksmanship on the battlefield. So in an attempt to prepare their men for any future conflicts, they founded the National Rifle Association to promote rifle practice.
让我们把视角转向80年后，到1871年。 美国内战已经结束几年， 但一些联邦政府军官 在战场上看见了一些水平很差的射击。 所以为了训练他们的士兵应对未来的冲突, 他们成立了美国步枪协会（NRA) 来推广步枪训练。
In short, the Second Amendment was written to ensure that our newly formed and fragile country had access to organized state militias. And the NRA's original mission was to ensure future soldiers had good aim.
总之，第二修正案是为了保证 我们新成立的脆弱的国家 可以组织民兵武装。 而美国步枪协会原本的宗旨是 保证未来的士兵擅长瞄准目标。
Someone could teach an entire course on how the next 150 years influenced the gun regulation conversations we're having in the United States and our interpretation of the Second Amendment. Almost every pivotal moment in our nation's history in one way or another influenced how we as a people manufacture, debate, regulate and feel about guns. A lot of change has occurred. As a matter of fact, it wasn't until 2008 that the Supreme Court ruled for the first time the Second Amendment protects an individual right to possess a firearm unconnected with service in a militia and to use that arm for traditionally lawful purposes, such as self-defense within the home. Within the home.
关于接下来150年 美国枪支管控的讨论和影响 以及我们对第二修正案的理解 可以开一个课程。 我们国家几乎每个历史的关键时刻 都以某种方式 影响我们个人如何 生产、辩论、管理和评价枪支。 一系列改变已经发生。 事实上，直到2008年 最高法院首次规定 第二修正案保护个人拥有枪支的权利 与服役于民兵武装无关， 并将武器使用于传统上的合法用途， 比如在家中自我防卫。 在家中。
This change over time is striking to me, because it reminds us that the interpretation of the Second Amendment and cultural attitudes about guns have changed over time. Which gives me hope they could change again.
这个久而久之的改变引起我的注意， 因为它提醒我们 对于第二修正案的理解 以及对于枪支的文化态度 在随着时间的推移改变。 这给予我它们可以再次改变的希望。
(Applause)
（掌声）
It's an incredibly complex and dynamic history lesson, but it's not the lesson I'm here to teach today, because we don't have time. I'm not talking about time, the time that I have here to stand and speak. I'm talking about the fact we don't have time to lose. According to the CDC, over the last five years, on average, each day 96 people are killed by guns in the United States, and if we don't figure out how to answer my students' question soon, one of us could be next.
这是一个相当复杂和有创新思想的历史课， 但我今天讲的不是这个课程， 因为我们没有时间。 我说的时间 不是指站在这里的演讲时间。 我说的时间是指我们没有时间去浪费。 根据市民民防团（CDC), 在过去的五年里， 在美国平均每天有96个人被枪杀， 而且如果我们不搞清楚如何回答 我的学生们的提问， 很快我们可能也是其中之一。
So, if the question is, how do we stop this senseless violence, the best way I can think to answer is to look at multiple choice. You remember multiple-choice questions in high school, don't you? Let's start.
所以，如果问题是， 如何阻止这场无意义的暴力行为， 我能想到的最好的回答方式是 去考虑多选项。 你们想起高中时代的多选题了吗？ 让我们开始吧。
Choice A: this will end when we hold gun manufacturers responsible for the deadliness of their products. It might surprise you to learn that we've actually thought about this before. Between 1998 and 2000, 30 counties and cities sued gun manufacturers, saying they should make their products safer and do a better job of tracking where their products are sold. In response, manufacturers argued that they had no direct liability for how their products were used. They said the stores who sold the guns and the owners who bought them were responsible should anything bad happen. In response to this and many other lawsuits, the NRA lobbied for the passage of the PLCAA, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. The PLCAA passed with bipartisan support in 2005 and entrusts gun manufacturers to design guns safely, stores to sell those guns responsibly and someone to own and use the gun responsibly. And so when 17 students and faculty die at my school, no one in this chain will assume responsibility.
选项A：让枪支生产商 承担产品造成的死亡责任 可以阻止枪支暴力。 你们可能惊讶于我们 其实以前就想过这个方法。 在1998-2000年间， 30个县和城市控告枪支生产商， 指责他们应该制造出更安全的产品 并更好去跟踪他们的产品被卖到哪里。 枪支生产商则回应争辩称 对于他们的商品如何被使用， 他们没有直接的责任。 他们称售卖枪支的商店和枪支拥有者 应该为枪支所引发的一切祸事负责。 为回应这起和很多其他的诉讼， 国家步枪协会为PLCAA， 《合法枪械买卖保护法》的通过游说。 2005年《合法枪械买卖保护法》 在两党的拥护下通过， 赋予枪支制造商 设计安全的枪支， 商店负责的售卖枪支， 个人拥有并负责地使用枪支。 所以当17位师生在我校死亡时， 这一链条上没有一个人承担责任。
Let's take a look at another option, Choice B: this will end when we hold ourselves accountable and regulate the estimated 300 million guns available in America. Yes, voting is one of the best ways to take personal responsibility for gun violence. Making sure that our lawmakers are willing to pass commonsense gun reform is one of the most effective ways to get those 300 million guns under control. And also, gun owners can take personal initiative. If you own a gun, ask yourself: Do I have an extra gun I don't need? Could it fall into the wrong hands? Have I attended the latest training? Perhaps as a gun owner, you should also ask whether you have been taking care of your mental health? When it comes to gun violence, the mental health argument falls flat if we don't acknowledge our own personal vulnerabilities to mental illness. One in six Americans will struggle with mental illness. If we own a gun, we should be rigorously engaged in the upkeep of our emotional well-being so we don't pull a trigger in times of illness. Otherwise, we should seriously ask ourselves whether we really have the time and attention to own a gun. Perhaps for some of us it's time to lay down our arms.
所以让我们考虑另一个选项， 选项B: 我们自己负起责任 并去管理美国大约3亿可用枪支， 可以阻止枪支暴力。 是的，投票是为枪支暴力担负个人责任 的一个最好方式。 保证立法者愿意通过常识性的枪支改革是 让3亿枪支得到控制是最有效的方式之一。 而且，枪支拥有者可以采取个人主动性。 如果你拥有枪支， 问问你自己： 我有没有一杆我不需要的枪支？ 它可能落入不法分子的手中吗？ 我有没有参加最新的训练？ 或许作为一个枪支拥有者， 你还应该问 你是否关心自己的心理健康？ 对于枪支暴力，心理健康的观点引不起兴趣。 如果我们不承认我们易受心理疾病的困扰。 每6个美国人就有1个挣扎于心理问题。 如果我们拥有枪，我们需要严格地参与抚慰 我们的心理健康， 这样我们才不会在发病之时 开动扳机。 抑或，我们应该认真地问我们自己， 我们是否有时间和精力去拥有一支枪。 或许对我们中的某些人， 是时候放下我们的武器。
Then we have Choice C: this will end when we do a better job of taking care of each other. Many social issues affect why people buy and use guns. Sixty-two percent of US gun fatalities between 2012 and 2016 were suicides, yet we call people maniacs and psychos, shaming them. We are creating barriers for people that need help. Why are we embarrassing each other? Let's make it easier, not harder, for people to access better mental health care. What else? Sexism, racism and poverty affect gun ownership and gun-related fatalities. On average, it's estimated that 50 women were fatally shot each month between 2010 and 2014 due to domestic violence, and women are still dying in their homes. Let's empower women and give our young boys a chance to learn how to work out their conflicts and emotions with words, not weapons. And the "Washington Post" reported that last year, nearly 1,000 people were fatally wounded by on-duty police officers. Talk to Black Lives Matter and the police union about that. We need to tackle this.
然后是选项C: 当我们能更好地关心他人时， 枪支暴力能结束。 人们购买或使用枪支的原因 受很多社会因素影响。 2012至2016年间，62%的美国枪支死亡 是因为自杀， 我们称那些人为疯子和精神变态者， 羞辱他们， 我们是在为需要帮助的人制造障碍。 为什么我们要让各自难堪？ 让我们将获得更好的精神健康护理 变成一件更容易而非更困难的事。 还有什么？性别歧视， 种族歧视和贫困影响枪支所有权 和与枪支有关的死亡。 在2010到2014年之间，每月平均50名女性 因为家庭暴力 被致命地枪杀， 而且今天女性还在她们的家中死亡。 让我们授予女性力量 并给我们的小男孩一个学习 怎样用话语而非武器解决矛盾和情感的机会。 华盛顿邮报报道去年， 几乎有1000个人被当值警察 致命伤害。 跟“黑人的命很重要”以及警察工会聊聊， 我们需要解决这个问题。
(Applause)
（掌声）
At the end of the day, perhaps people won't feel the need to buy and use a gun when they all equally feel safe, healthy, respected and cared for.
考虑所有情况之后， 或许人们将不会有购买和使用枪支的需要。 或许人们将不会有购买和使用枪支的需要。 当他们平等地感到安全， 健康，被尊重和关心。 好了，讨论时间结束了， 现在是时间回答这个问题。 我们如何能够阻止这样无意义的暴力行为？ 选项A， 选项B， 还是选项C？ 现在，我知道你们在想什么。 你们记得选择题 几乎从来不止三种可能。 经常会有第四种，选项D：以上都是。 或许这就是答案。 抑或"以上都是”太过简单， 而这不是个简单的问题。 它需要我们大家深入地分析思考。 所以我想请你们当作课外作业， 写下你们自己的选项D， 运用详细依据。 如果你们不确定从何开始， 以我学生们作为榜样。 他们拥有非常启发我的 难以置信的交流能力和公民意识。
All right, discussion time is over. It's now time to answer the question. How do we stop this senseless violence? Is it Choice A, Choice B, Choice C? Now, I know what you're all thinking. You remember that multiple-choice questions almost never end with just three possibilities. There's always that fourth, Choice D: all of the above. Maybe that's the answer here. Or maybe "all of the above" is too easy, and this is not an easy problem. It requires deep analytical thinking by all of us. So instead, I'm asking you to do your homework, write your own Choice D using supporting detail. And if you're not sure where to start, look to my students as role models. They are armed with incredible communication skills and a sense of citizenship that I find so inspiring.
（掌声）
(Applause)
这些公立学校的孩子参与枪支管控的问题， 他们的努力打动了我们的心。 他们不应该独自做这件事。 他们请你们， 他们请我们所有人 参与其中。 这不是只旁观不参加的事情。
These are public school kids engaged in the issue of gun regulation, and their endeavor has moved our hearts. And they shouldn't have to do this on their own. They're asking you, they're asking all of us, to get involved. This isn't a spectator sport.
所以正确的答案是什么？ 我不知道。听着，我不是个枪支管控的专家。 我教人文学科。 作为一个人应该去学习， 作为文明社会的一份子要去分享你们的知识。 这种正当，勇敢和真诚的参与 是我要求我学生的， 是作为一个老师我对自己的期待， 而我现在也要求你们。 你们中的每一位需要做你们的功课。 然后呢？ 谦逊地给他人分享你们的知识。 请你们教你们的家人， 教你们的社区， 你们的市议会，你们的州议会。 教国会一课。
So what's the right answer? I don't know. Listen, I'm no gun control expert. I teach the humanities. To be human is to learn, and to be part of a civilization is to share your knowledge. This kind of honest, brave and sincere engagement is what I ask of my students, what I expect of myself as a teacher and what I demand of you now. Every one of you needs to do your homework. And then what? Humbly share your knowledge with each other. Please teach your family, teach your community, your city council, your state legislature. Teach Congress a lesson.
谢谢大家。
Thank you.
（掌声）
(Applause)
谢谢。谢谢。
Thank you. Thank you.
（掌声）