Come with me to Agbogbloshie, a neighborhood in the heart of Accra, named after a god that lives in the Odaw River. There's a slum, Old Fadama, built on land reclaimed from the Korle Lagoon, just before it opens into the Gulf of Guinea. There's a scrapyard here where people take apart all kinds of things, from mobile phones to computers, automobiles to even entire airplanes.
﻿和我一起去阿博布罗西。 阿克拉市中心的一个社区， 命名自一位住在奥德河的神。 那里有个贫民窟，老法达玛， 建在科勒泻湖填充而成的土地上， 就在它进入几内亚湾之前。 这里有一个废品回收站， 人们把各种各样的东西， 从手机到电脑， 汽车甚至整架飞机拆分解。
Agbogbloshie's scrapyard is famous because it has become a symbol of the downside of technology: the problem of planned obsolescence. It's seen as a place where devices from around the world end their life, where your data comes to die.
阿博布罗西的废品回收很出名， 因为它已经成为科技的负面标志： 计划报废的问题。 它是世界各地的设备 结束它们生命的地方， 你的数据消亡的场所。
These are the images that the media loves to show, of young men and boys burning wires and cables to recover copper and aluminum, using Styrofoam and old tires as fuel, seriously hurting themselves and the environment. It's a super-toxic process, producing pollutants that enter the global ecosystem, build up in fatty tissue and threaten the top of the food chain.
这些照片是媒体喜欢展示的， 年轻人和小伙子燃烧电线和电缆 回收铜和铝， 使用聚苯乙烯泡沫塑料和旧轮胎 作为燃料。 严重伤害他们自己和环境。 这是个毒性超强的过程， 产生进入全球生态系统的污染物， 沉淀在脂肪组织中 并威胁食物链的顶端。
But this story is incomplete. There's a lot we can learn from Agbogbloshie, where scrap collected from city- and nationwide is brought. For so many of us, our devices are black boxes. We know what they do, but not how they work or what's inside. In Agbogbloshie, people make it their business to know exactly what's inside. Scrap dealers recover copper, aluminum, steel, glass, plastic and printed circuit boards. It's called "urban mining." It's now more efficient for us to mine materials from our waste. There is 10 times more gold, silver, platinum, palladium in one ton of our electronics than in one ton of ore mined from beneath the surface of the earth. In Agbogbloshie, weight is a form of currency. Devices are dissected to recover materials, parts and components with incredible attention to detail, down to the aluminum tips of electric plugs.
但这样的故事是不完整的。 我们可以从阿博布罗西学到很多， 在那里收集了 全国和全球各地的废品。 对我们很多人而言， 我们的设备是黑盒子。 我们知道它们是做什么用的， 但不知道它们工作原理或里面有啥。 在阿博布罗西， 人们把它当作自己的生意， 知道里面到底是什么。 废品回收商回收 铜、铝、钢、玻璃、塑料 和印刷电路板。 这被称为“城市采矿”。 对我们来说， 从废品中开采材料更有效率。 1吨电子产品中黄金，白银， 铂金，钯 的含量 比地球表面下开采的同等矿石 要高10倍。 在阿博布罗西， 重量是一种货币形态。 设备以难以想象的细致程度被分割 以回收材料、部件和元件， 细到电插头的铝尖。
But scrap dealers don't destroy components that are still functional. They supply them to repair workshops like this one in Agbogbloshie and the tens of thousands of technicians across the country that refurbish electrical and electronic equipment, and sell them as used products to consumers that may not be able to buy a new television or a new computer. Make no mistake about it, there are young hackers in Agbogbloshie -- and I mean that in the very best sense of that word -- that know not only how to take apart computers but how to put them back together, how to give them new life. Agbogbloshie reminds us that making is a cycle. It extends to remaking and unmaking in order to recover the materials that enable us to make something anew.
但废品经销商不会破坏 仍能运作的部件。 他们供给在阿博布罗西 像这样的维修店， 以及全国各地成千上万翻新电器 和电子设备的技术人员， 把这些物品当二手产品卖给买不起 新电视机或新电脑的消费者。 毫无疑问，在阿博布罗西 有年轻的黑客， 我的确切意思是指 那些不仅知道如何把电脑拆开， 也知道如何组装起来， 赋予它们新的生命的人。 阿博布罗西提醒我们 制造是一个循环。 它延伸到重塑和分解， 以恢复那些 使我们能够重新创造新事物的材料。
We can learn from Agbogbloshie, where cobblers remake work boots, where women collect plastic from all over the city, sort it by type, shred it, wash it and ultimately sell it back as feedstock to factories to make new clothing, new plastic buckets and chairs. Steel is stockpiled separately, where the carcasses of cars and microwaves and washing machines become iron rods for new construction; where roofing sheets become cookstoves; where shafts from cars become chisels that are used to scrap more objects; where aluminum recovered from the radiators of fridges and air conditioners are melted down and use sand casting to make ornaments for the building industry, for pots which are sold just down the street in the Agbogbloshie market with a full array of locally made ovens, stoves and smokers, which are used every day to make the majority of palm nut soups, of tea and sugar breads, of grilled tilapia in the city. They're made in roadside workshops like this one by welders like Mohammed, who recover materials from the waste stream and use them to make all kinds of things, like dumbbells for working out out of old car parts. But here's what's really cool: the welding machines they use look like this, and they're made by specially coiling copper around electrical steel recovered from old transformer scrap. There's an entire industry just next to Agbogbloshie making locally fabricated welding machines that power local fabrication.
我们可以像阿博布罗西了解到， 在那补鞋匠冲造工作靴， 女性从城市各处收集塑料， 分门别类， 分解，清洗 并最终作为原料出售给工厂 去制造新的衣服， 新塑料桶 和椅子。 钢被分开储存， 在那里汽车、微波炉和洗衣机的部件 成为新建材的铁棒； 屋顶的薄钢板变成炉灶； 汽车上的轴变成凿子 用来拆解更多的物品。 冰箱和空调的散热器中 回收的铝 被融化后 用砂铸造为建筑行业的装饰， 那些在阿博布罗西市场上卖的罐子里 装满了各种各样本地制造的烤箱、 炉灶和排烟机， 每日用于 制作城里大部分的棕榈仁汤， 茶和糖面包， 还有烤罗非鱼。 它们是在这样的作坊里 像穆罕默德这样的焊工制作的， 他从废物流中回收各种材料 使用来制作各种各样的东西， 比如从旧汽车零件中制造出哑铃。 但最酷的是： 他们使用的焊接机器是这样的， 它们是由旧变压器废料中回收的 特殊的卷铜制成而成的。 在阿博布罗西旁边就有个产业 制造焊接机器， 为本地制造提供动力。
What's really cool as well is that there's a transfer of skills and knowledge across generations, from masters to apprentices, but it's done through active learning, through heuristic learning, learning by doing and by making. And this stands in sharp contrast to the experience of many students in school, where lecturers lecture, and students write things down and memorize them. It's boring, but the real problem is this somehow preempts their latent or their inherent entrepreneurial power. They know books but not how to make stuff.
真正酷的是知识和技能在 不同代间的传承， 从师傅到学徒， 但这是通过主动学习，启发式学习， 通过动手和制作来学习的。 这与很多学生在学校的经历 正好形成鲜明的对比， 那里上课就是上课， 学生把东西写下来记住。 这非常无趣，但真正的问题在于 这某种程度上取代了他们的天赋 或他们与生俱来的创业能力。 他们知道书本知识， 但不知道如何做事。
Four years ago, my cofounder Yasmine Abbas and I asked: What would happen if we could couple the practical know-how of makers in the informal sector with the technical knowledge of students and young professionals in STEAM fields -- science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics -- to build a STEAM-powered innovation engine to drive what we call "Sankofa Innovation," which I'll explain. We took forays into the scrapyard to look for what could be repurposed, like DVD writers that could become laser etchers, or the power supplies of old servers for a start-up in Kumasi making 3D printers out of e-waste. The key was to bring together young people from different backgrounds that ordinarily never have anything to do with each other, to have a conversation about how they could collaborate and to test and develop new machines and tools that could allow them to shred and strip copper instead of burning it, to mold plastic bricks and tiles, to build new computers out of components recovered from dead electronics, to build a drone. And here you can see it flying for the first time in Agbogbloshie.
4年前，我的联合创始人Yasmine Abbas 和我问自己： 如果我们把非正规部门中 自学成才的人与 集科学，技术，工程，艺术和数学 的STEAM教育体系 中的学生和年轻专业人士的知识 结合在一起， 去构建STEAM模式的创新引擎 去推动我们所说的“桑科法创新”的话， 会发生什么？ 我们突袭了废品回收站 去寻找什么东西可以重新利用， 如DVD读写器可以变成 激光蚀刻机， 或是旧服务器的电源 为库马西的一家创业公司，为他们用 电子垃圾制作3D打印机提供电源。 关键在于把来自不同背景的年轻人， 他们平常基本不会产生任何联系， 去就可能的协作进行对话 并测试和开发新的机器和工具， 这些工具可以让他们分解并剥去铜 而不是燃烧掉， 去塑造塑料砖和瓦， 用从废弃电子设备回收的部件 来制造新计算机， 去制造无人机。 你现在看到的是 它在阿博布罗西首航。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
Yasmine and I have collaborated with over 1,500 young people, 750 from STEAM fields, and over 750 grassroots makers and scrap dealers from Agbogbloshie and beyond. They've joined hands together to develop a platform which they call Spacecraft, a hybrid physical and digital space for crafting, more of a process than a product, an open architecture for making, which involves three parts: a makerspace kiosk, which is prefab and modular; tool kits which can be customized based on what makers want to make; and a trading app.
Yasmine和我与超过1500位年轻人合作， 750位来自STEAM领域 ， 超过750位是来自阿博布罗西和其他地区的 草根创客和废品经销商。 他们携手一到开发了一个他们 称为太空船的平台， 一个混合物理和数字的工艺空间， 更多是一个过程而非产品， 一个制造的开放架构， 其中包括三个部分： 一个创客空间的小亭子， 它是预制和模块化的。 可以根据创客想要制造的产品 定制的工具包， 和一个交易的APP。
We built the app specifically with the needs of the scrap dealers in mind first, because we realized that it was not enough to arm them with information and upgraded technology if we wanted them to green their recycling processes; they needed incentives. Scrap dealers are always looking for new scrap and new buyers and what interests them is finding buyers who will pay more for clean copper than for burnt. We realized that in the entire ecosystem, everyone was searching for something. Makers are searching for materials, parts, components, tools, blueprints to make what it is they want to make. They're also finding a way to let customers and clientele find out that they can repair a blender or fix an iron or, as we learned yesterday, to make a french fry machine.
我们专门开发了这款应用， 以满足废品经销商的需求。 首先要清楚， 因为我们知道光用信息和升级科技 武装他们是不够的。 如果想让他们绿色化回收流程， 他们需要动力。 废品经销商总在寻找新的废品和 新的买家 让他们感兴趣的是找到愿意为清洁铜 而非燃烧的 支付更多钱的买家。 我们意识到在整个生态系统中， 每个人都在寻找东西。 创客在寻找材料、部件、组件、 工具、蓝图 去制造他们想要制造的东西。 他们也在寻找方法让顾客和客户 发现他们可以修理搅拌机 或修理熨斗， 或者，就像我们昨天了解的， 做一个炸薯条机器。
On the flip side, you find that there are end users that are desperately looking for someone that can make them a french fry machine, and you have scrap dealers who are looking how they can collect this scrap, process it, and turn it back into an input for new making. We tried to untangle that knot of not knowing to allow people to find what they need to make what they want to make.
另一方面，你发现终端用户 在迫切寻找能够帮他们制作 炸薯条机器的人， 而废品经销商在寻找 如何收集这些废料， 处理它，并将它转换为 新制造的输入。 我们试图解开这个不知道的结， 让人们找到他们想要的东西， 去做他们想做的事。
We prototyped the makerspace kiosk in Agbogbloshie, conceived as the opposite of a school: a portal into experiential and experimental making that connects local and global and connects making with remaking and unmaking. We made a rule that everything had to be made from scratch using only materials made in Ghana or sourced from the scrapyard. The structures essentially are simple trusses which bolt together. It takes about two hours to assemble one module with semi-skilled labor, and by developing tooling and jigs and rigs, we were able to actually build these standardized parts within this ecosystem of artisanal welders with the precision of one millimeter -- of course, using made-in-Agbogbloshie welding machines, as well as for the tools, which can lock, the toolboxes, and stack to make workbenches, and again, customized based on what you want to make.
我们在阿博布罗西制作的 创客空间小亭子， 作为学校的对立面： 一个进入试验和实验制作的门户， 用来连接本地和全球， 并连接制造，再造和分解。 我们立下了一条规矩 所有的东西都应用制造自 加纳制造的废品材料 或者废料场采购的材料。 这些结构本质上 是简单的结合在一起的。 半熟练工人组装一个模块 大约需要两个小时， 通过开发工具，夹具和钻机， 我们能够在这个手工焊接的 生态系统中 建立这些标准化的部件， 精度可达1毫米。 当然， 使用阿博布罗西制造的焊接机， 以及这些工具， 这些工具盒都可以堆积固定 成为工作台， 再说一次，可以根据你想要的东西 进行定制。
We've tested the app in Agbogbloshie and are getting ready to open it up to other maker ecosystems. In six months, we'll have finished three years of testing the makerspace kiosk, which I have to admit, we've subjected to some pretty horrific abuse. But it's for a good cause, because based on the results of that testing, we've been able to redesign an upgraded version of this makerspace. If a fab lab is large, expensive, and fixed in place, think of this as the counterpoint: something low-cost, which can be locally manufactured, which can be expanded and kitted out incrementally as makers acquire resources. You can think of it as a toolshed, where makers can come and check out tools and take them via handcart to wherever they want in the city to make what it is they want to make. And moving into the next phase, we're planning to also add ceiling-mounted CNC bots, which allow makers to cocreate together with robots. Ultimately, this is a kit of parts which can be assembled locally within the informal sector using standardized parts which can be upgraded collectively through an open-source process.
我们在阿博布罗西测试这个APP 并准确将其开放给 其他创客的生存体系。 在6个月中，我们完成对创客空间亭 的三年测试， 我们不得不承认， 我们受到了一些粗暴的对待。 但这有正当的理由， 因为基于测试的结果， 我们已经能够重新设计 这个创客空间的升级版。 如果一个工厂实验室又大，又贵， 又不易移动， 就可以把这想成其对立面： 它是低成本的， 可以本地制造， 可以扩展并随着创客的资源需求 逐渐增加。 你可以把它想象成一个工具棚， 创客可以来这里查找工具， 用手推车拿走它们， 到他们想去的地方， 做他们想做的东西。 进入下一个阶段，我们还打算添加 嵌入式的数控机器人， 可以让创客与机器人共同制造。 最终，这是一套 可以在非正规部门内部组装的部件， 使用可以通过开源过程 进行集体升级的标准化部件。
In totality, this entire makerspace system tries to do five things: to enable emerging makers to gather the resources they need and the tools to make what they want to make; to learn by doing and from others; to produce more and better products; to be able to trade to generate steady income; and ultimately, to amplify not only their reputation as a maker, but their maker potential.
总的来说，整个创客空间系统 试图做5件事情： 让新兴创客能够收集到 所需要的资源 和工具去制造他们想做的东西； 通过亲自做和他人身上学习； 去制造更多和更好的产品； 可以通过交易产生稳定的收入； 最终，不仅要扩大他们作为创客的 声誉， 还有他们的创客潜能。
Sankofa is one of the most powerful Adinkra symbols of the Akan peoples in Ghana and Cote d'Ivoire, and it can be represented as a bird reaching onto its back to collect an egg, a symbol of power. It translates literally from the Twi as "return and get it," and what this means is that if an individual or a community or a society wants to have a successful future, they have to draw on the past. To acquire and master existing ways of doing, access the knowledge of their ancestors.
桑科法是在加纳和科德维尔的阿卡人  最强大的阿丁克拉族符号之一， 它可以描绘成一只鸟 到它的背上去收集鸟蛋， 一种力量的符号。 它从字面上翻译过来就是 "回来并得到它" 这意味着假如一个人， 一个社区或一个社会 想要在未来取得成功， 他们必须回到过去。 去获取并掌握现存的做事方法， 获取他们祖先的知识。
And this is very relevant if we want to think about an inclusive future for Africa today. We have to start from the ground up, mining what already works for methods and for models, and to think about how might we be able to connect, in a kind of "both-and," not "either-or" paradigm, the innovation capacity of this growing network of tech hubs and incubators across the continent and to rethink beyond national boundaries and political boundaries, to think about how we can network innovation in Africa with the spirit of Sankofa and the existing capacity of makers at the grassroots.
这是非常相关的， 如果我们想为今天的非洲 考虑一个包容性的未来。 我们必须从头开始， 挖掘已经适用的方法和模型， 并去想想我们如何去连接， 以一种“两者都”而非 “非此即彼”的范式， 去连接这个不断增长的科技中心 和孵化器网络的创新能力， 并重新思考超越国界和政治界限的 问题， 去思考我们如何在非洲建立 网络创新， 在桑科法精神 以及现存的草根阶层能力的指导下。
If, in the future, someone tells you Agbogbloshie is the largest e-waste dump in the world, I hope you can correct them and explain to them that a dump is a place where you throw things away and leave them forever; a scrapyard is where you take things apart. Waste is something that no longer has any value, whereas scrap is something that you recover specifically to use it to remake something new.
假若，将来，有人告诉你 阿博布罗西是世界上最大的 电子垃圾场， 我希望你能纠正他们， 并向他们解释垃圾堆是 你把东西往哪一堆 就再也不管的地方； 废料场是你把东西拆卸的地方。 废品是不再有任何价值的东西， 而废料是你回收回来 专门用来制造新东西的物品。
Making is a cycle, and African makerspaces are already pioneering and leading circular economy at the grassroots. Let's make more and better together.
制造是一个循环， 非洲的创客空间已经在领先和引领 草根阶层的循环经济。 让我们一起做得越来越好。
Thank you.
谢谢
(Applause)
（鼓掌）