When Homer’s Iliad was first written  down in the 8th century BCE, the story of the Trojan war  was already an old one. From existing oral tradition, audiences knew the tales  of the long siege, the epic duels outside the city walls, and the cunning trick  that finally won the war. In the end, the magnificent city was burned to the ground, never to rise again. But had it ever existed?
﻿在《荷马史诗》写就的公元前8世纪，
By the time the field of archaeology  began to take shape in the 19th century, many were skeptical, considering the epic to be pure fiction, a founding myth imagining  a bygone heroic era. But some scholars believed that behind the superhuman feats  and divine miracles there must have been a grain  of historical truth - a war that was really fought, and a place where it happened.
特洛伊战争已经算是 一个流传很久的故事了。 从传统的口头叙述中， 人们知道在故事中 特洛伊城遭到长期围困， 城墙外展开了传奇的对战， 以及赢下战争所用到的狡猾计谋。 这座辉煌的城市最终被付之一炬， 再也没能重新崛起。 但它真的存在么？
Frank Calvert was one such believer. He had spent his youth traveling  and learning about ancient civilizations before accompanying his brother Frederick on a diplomatic mission to the northwest Anatolian region of Çanakkale. It was here that Homer described  the Greek encampment at the mouth of the Scamander river. And it was here that fate brought Frank  into contact with a journalist and geologist  named Charles Maclaren.
19世纪时考古学研究初见雏形， 许多人对特洛伊城持有怀疑态度， 认为史诗记载只不过是纯粹的虚构。 是一种对久远英雄年代 产生的神秘想象。 但是一些学者认为 在这些超人功绩和神灵奇迹的背后， 必然会存在一丝历史意义上的真实性—— 一场真实发生过的战争，
Locals and travelers had long speculated that Troy might’ve stood on one  of the surrounding hilltops. But Maclaren had been one of the first to publish a detailed topographical  study of the area. He believed he had found the site – a 32-meter mound known  by the name Hisarlık, derived from the Turkish word  for “fortress.” Soon after meeting with him in 1847, the Calverts bought  2,000 acres of farmland that included part of the hill. Before they could explore any further, the Crimean War broke out and forestalled their archaeological  ambitions for several years.
以及它发生的地点。
After the war’s end, Frank Calvert began to survey the site, but lacked the funds  for a full excavation. This was where the wealthy  German businessman and amateur archaeologist  Heinrich Schliemann came in. At Calvert’s invitation,
弗兰克·卡尔沃特就持有这种观点。 他在青年时期不断游历 并学习古代文明， 之后陪伴哥哥弗雷德里克 因外交任务来到了土耳其恰纳卡莱的 安纳托利亚的西北地区。 荷马就是在此处描绘了希腊军的营地 即斯卡曼德洛斯河口。 也是在此，命运让弗兰克 结识了记者，同时也是地质学家的 查尔斯·麦克拉伦
Schliemann visited the grounds in 1868,  and decided to excavate. Eager to find the ancient city, Schliemann tore massive trenches  all the way to the base of the hill. There, he uncovered a hoard  of precious artifacts, jewelry, and metalwork, including two diadems  and a copper shield. Schliemann took full credit  for the discovery, announcing that he had found Troy and the treasure of its king Priam. But the real treasure was elsewhere. When later archaeologists  studied the site, they realized that the mound consisted  of no less than nine cities, each built atop the ruins of the last. The layer Schliemann had uncovered  dated back to the Mycenaean Age, more than 1,000 years too early  for Homer.
当地人和游客长期以来都在猜测 特洛伊城可能位于周围的山峰之中。 但是麦克拉伦则是 发布此地详细地形图的第一人。 他认为自己找到了遗址—— 一个32米，名为希沙立克的土堆。 其名字来源于土耳其语的“堡垒”。 1847年，卡尔弗特见到麦克拉伦之后， 便买下了2000公顷的农田， 其中就包括这座山的一部分。 在他们继续进行探索之前， 克里米亚战争爆发了， 使他们的考古雄心搁置了数年。
But inside the mound was indeed evidence for a city that had thrived  during the Bronze Age, with charred stone, broken arrowheads, and damaged human skeletons  suggesting a violent end. It was Troy VII,  contained in the middle layers and now ravaged for a second time  by Schliemann’s careless excavation. The settlement,  spanning some 200,000 square meters and home to as many as 10,000 people, thrived until around 1180 BCE. Its position at the southern entrance  of the Dardanelles strait would’ve made a formidable strategic  location for both defense and trade. Most importantly, there are the remains  of a massive fortification wall – perhaps the very same one from which Priam and Hector  once watched the Greeks approach.
战争结束后， 弗兰克·卡尔弗特开始考察这片地区。 但是他缺乏进行全面发掘的资金。 这时，轮到富有的德国商人 同时也是业余考古爱好者的 海因里希·谢里曼出场。 应卡尔弗特之邀，
Of course, it’s difficult to be certain that these ruins are the true remains  of ancient Troy, and scholars still dispute whether the Trojan War  as described by Homer ever happened. Yet the evidence is strong enough that UNESCO has labelled Hisarlık the archeological site of Troy. Regardless of its identity, thanks to persistence, a bit of faith, and a lot of research, archaeologists are bringing  the long-buried secrets of an ancient, lost city to light.
谢里曼在1868年到访了此地 并决定进行挖掘。 他热切地希望找到这座古老城市， 他挖了大量沟渠， 一直通到山的底部。 就在那里，他发现了 聚集在一起的宝物， 珠宝， 以及金属制品， 包括两个皇冠和一个铜盾。 谢里曼认为此次发现 都是自己的功劳， 并宣称自己找到了特洛伊城， 找到了普利阿莫斯国王的宝藏。 但真正的宝藏却在别处。 考古学家随后对遗址进行勘察， 他们意识到这个土堆 由九个以上的城市构成， 每一个都是在 上一个废墟的基础上建成。 谢里曼发现的那层遗迹 可以追溯到迈锡尼时代， 这比荷马所在的年代早了1000多年。