For the last two and a half years, I'm one of the few, if not the only, child psychiatrist operating in refugee camps, shorelines and rescue boats in Greece and the Mediterranean Sea. And I can say, with great confidence, that we are witnessing a mental-health catastrophe that will affect most of us, and it will change our world.
﻿在过去两年半的时间里， 我是为数不多的，如果不是唯一 在希腊和地中海的难民营，海岸线 和救援船中工作的儿童精神病学家。 我可以确信地说 我们正在目睹的这场心理健康灾难 将会影响我们大多数人，并改变我们的世界。
I live in Haifa, but nowadays, I spend most of my time abroad. During my time on the Greek island of Lesbos and on the rescue boats in the Mediterranean, thousands of refugee boats arrived to the shoreline, crowded with more than 1.5 million refugees. One-fourth of them are children, fleeing war and hardship. Each boat carries different sufferings and traumas from Syria, Iraq, Afganistan and different countries in Africa. In the last three years alone, more than 12,000 refugees lost their lives. And hundreds of thousands lost their souls and their mental health due to this cruel and traumatic experience.
我住在海法，但现在我大部分时间都在海外。 在希腊莱斯博斯岛的那段时间 以及在地中海的救援船上， 数千艘难民船抵达海岸线， 挤满多达150万的难民。 其中1/4是儿童， 他们逃离战争和苦难。 每艘船都装载着不同的痛苦和创伤， 来自叙利亚、伊拉克、阿富汗和非洲的不同国家。 仅在过去三年， 就有超过12,000位难民死去。 成千上万的人则失去了灵魂和精神健康， 因为这些残酷而痛苦的经历。
I want to tell you about Omar, a five-year-old Syrian refugee boy who arrived to the shore on Lesbos on a crowded rubber boat. Crying, frightened, unable to understand what's happening to him, he was right on the verge of developing a new trauma. I knew right away that this was a golden hour, a short period of time in which I could change his story, I could change the story that he would tell himself for the rest of his life. I could reframe his memories. I quickly held out my hands and said to his shaking mother in Arabic,
我想告诉你们奥马尔的故事， 一位5岁的叙利亚难民 乘坐一艘拥挤的橡皮艇抵达莱斯博斯岛的海岸。 哭泣，害怕，无法理解发生了什么， 他正处于产生新创伤的边缘。 我清楚知道这是黄金时间， 这段短短的时间可以改变他的故事。 我能够改变这个 余生他会告诉自己的故事。 我可以重塑他的记忆。 我马上伸出双手，用阿拉伯语对他颤抖的母亲说：
(Arabic) "Ateeni elwalad o khudi nafas." "Give me the boy, and take a breath." His mother gave him to me.
(阿拉伯语)"Ateeni elwalad o khudi nafas." “把孩子给我，放松呼吸下”。 他妈妈把他抱给我。
Omar looked at me with scared, tearful eyes and said, (Arabic) "Ammo (uncle in Arabic), shu hada?" "What is this?" as he pointed out to the police helicopter hovering above us.
奥马尔用惧怕的泪眼看着我说： (阿拉伯语) "Ammo (uncle in Arabic), shu hada?" “那是什么？” 他指着正在我们上方盘旋的直升机问。
"It's a helicopter! It's here to photograph you with big cameras, because only the great and the powerful heroes, like you, Omar, can cross the sea."
“那是直升机！ 他正用大相机给你拍照呢， 因为只有最伟大和强大的英雄， 比如你，奥马尔，才能穿越大海。“
Omar looked at me, stopped crying and asked me, (Arabic) "Ana batal?" "I'm a hero?"
奥马尔看着我，停止了哭泣问我： (阿拉伯语) "Ana batal?" “我是英雄？”
I talked to Omar for 15 minutes. And I gave his parents some guidance to follow. This short psychological intervention decreases the prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health issues in the future, preparing Omar to get an education, join the workforce, raise a family and beyond. How? By stimulating the good memories that will be stored in the amygdala, the emotional storage of the human brain. These memories will fight the traumatic ones, if they are reactivated in the future. To Omar, the smell of the sea will not just remind him of his traumatic journey from Syria. Because to Omar, this story is now a story of bravery.
我跟奥马尔谈了15分钟， 并给他父母一些后续的指导意见。 这个简短的精神干预 可以减少创伤后应激障碍的患病率 以及未来的其他心理健康问题， 为奥马尔接受教育， 工作和抚养家庭等做好准备。 “怎么做？” 通过刺激储存在杏仁核中的美好记忆， 存储在人类大脑的情感， 这些记忆会与创伤性的记忆斗争， 如果它们在将来被重新激活。 对奥马尔来说，大海的气息不只会让他想起 他从叙利亚过来的痛苦旅程。 因为对奥马尔而言，这个经历现在已经变成了勇敢的故事。
This is the power of the golden hour, which can reframe the trauma and establish a new narrative. But Omar is only one out of more than 350,000 children without the proper mental health support in this crisis alone. Three hundred and fifty thousand children and me.
这就是黄金时间的力量， 它可以重塑创伤并建立一个新的叙述。 但奥马尔只是其中一个，这场危机中没有获得 合适心理健康支援的超过35万儿童。 35万儿童和我。
We need mental health professionals to join rescue teams during times of active crisis. This is why my wife and I and friends co-founded "Humanity Crew." One of the few aid organizations in the world that specializes in providing psychosocial aid and first-response mental health interventions to refugees and displaced populations. To provide them with a suitable intervention, we create the four-step approach, a psychosocial work plan that follows the refugees on each step of their journey. Starting inside the sea, on the rescue boats, as mental health lifeguards. Later in the camps, hospitals and through our online clinic that breaks down borders and overcomes languages. And ending in the asylum countries, helping them integrate.
我们需要心理健康专家 在危机期间加入救援队伍。 这就是我和我的妻子和朋友 共同创立“人性救护队”的原因。 这个世界上少数几个 专门提供心理援助， 并第一时间给难民和流离失所的人们 提供心理健康干预的组织。 为给他们提供适当的干预， 我们创建了四步方法，一个跟随难民旅途 每一个环节的心理工作计划。 从海上的救援船开始 扮演心理健康救生员的角色。 随后到难民营，医院和我们的在线诊所 去打破国界和克服语言障碍， 最终到庇护国，帮助他们融入社会。
Since our first mission in 2015, "Humanity Crew" had 194 delegations of qualified, trained volunteers and therapists. We have provided 26,000 hours of mental health support to over 10,000 refugees. We can all do something to prevent this mental health catastrophe. We need to acknowledge that first aid is not just needed for the body, but it has also to include the mind, the soul. The impact on the soul is hardly visible, but the damage can be there for life.
自2015年首次任务以来， “人性救护队”一共派出194个 受过专业训练的志愿者和治疗师组成的代表团。 我们提供的心理健康支持时长超过26,000小时， 服务超过10,000名难民。 我们都可以做点什么来防止这种精神疾病的灾难。 我们得承认，需要急救的不仅仅是身体， 心理和灵魂也应该包括在内。 对灵魂的影响是看不见的， 但对生活的损害是存在的。
Let's not forget that what distinguishes us humans from machines is the beautiful and the delicate soul within us. Let's try harder to save more Omars.
让我们不要忘记人类与机器的区别在于 我们内在的美丽和脆弱的灵魂。 让我们更努力去拯救更多的奥马尔。
Thank you.
谢谢
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
(Cheers)
（欢呼）
(Applause)
（鼓掌）