I guess because I'm from Tanzania I have a responsibility to welcome all of you once again. Thank you for coming.
﻿我猜，由于我来自坦桑尼亚 我有责任再次欢迎你们 谢谢你们的到来
So, first of all, before we start, how many of you in the audience have been in the past a victim of this bug here? We apologize on behalf of all the mosquito catchers.
在演讲开始前，首先我想问一下 各位在座的朋友 是否都受过蚊虫叮咬之苦？ 我代表所有捕蚊者向大家道歉
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Ladies and gentlemen, imagine getting seven infectious mosquito bites every day. That's 2,555 infectious bites every year. When I was in college, I moved to the Kilombero River valley in the southeastern part of Tanzania. This is historically one of the most malarious zones in the world at that time. Life here was difficult. In its later stages malaria manifested with extreme seizures locally known as degedege. It's killed both women and men, adults and children, without mercy.
女士们，先生们 想象一下，如果每天被 携带传染源的蚊子叮咬7次 那一年就是2555次。 我上大学的时候， 搬到了坐落于坦桑尼亚南部的 基隆贝罗河谷村。 在当时，那里是有史以来 全世界疟疾的高发区。 那儿的生活很艰辛 在疟疾晚期 它主要表现为极严重的抽搐， 当地称为“degedege" 无论男女老少 都难以幸免。
My home institution, Ifakara Health Institute, began in this valley in the 1950s to address priority health needs for the local communities. In fact, the name Ifakara refers to a place you go to die, which is a reflection of what life used to be here in the days before organized public health care. When I first moved here, my primary role was to estimate how much malaria transmission was going on across the villages and which mosquitoes were transmitting the disease.
我家乡的研究机构，‘Ifakara研究所‘ 于上世纪50年代在这个村庄成立 为当地社区提供重要的健康保障。 实际上，Ifakara的意思是 人死时会去的地方 它反映了没有公共医疗保障之前 当地的生活状况。 当我第一次搬到这里来的时候 我主要的工作就是去估计 在这个村子里有多少疟疾传播的案例 并找出是哪种蚊子在传播疾病。
So my colleague and myself came 30 kilometers south of Ifakara town across the river. Every evening we went into the villages with flashlights and siphons. We rolled up our trousers, and waited for mosquitoes that were coming to bite us so we could collect them to check if they were carrying malaria.
为此，我和同事来到 跨过河30公里以外的ifakara镇以南。 每晚我们都带着手电筒和虹吸管去村子里 我们卷起裤管 等着蚊子来叮咬我们 因此，我们可以收集它们 检查它们是否携带疟疾病毒
(Laughter)
（笑声）
My colleague and myself selected a household, and we started inside and outside, swapping positions every half hour. And we did this for 12 hours every night for 24 consecutive nights. We slept for four hours every morning and worked the rest of the day, sorting mosquitoes, identifying them and chopping off their heads so they could be analyzed in the lab to check if they were carrying malaria parasites in their blood mouthparts. This way we were able to not only know how much malaria was going on here but also which mosquitoes were carrying this malaria. We were also able to know whether malaria was mostly inside houses or outside houses.
我和同事选了一户人家 然后我们开始屋里屋外站岗， 每隔半小时换一班， 每晚值班12个小时，连续干了24个晚上。 我们每天早上睡4个小时 其余时间都一直工作 我们将收集到的蚊子分类，辨认它们 并切下它们的头 这样它们就可以被送到实验室里去分析了 看它们带血的口器里是否携带 疟原虫。 这样，我们不仅知道有多少例疟疾发生 也知道是哪种蚊子携带疟疾源 我们还可以知道 疟疾是常在屋内感染还是在屋外
Today, ladies and gentlemen, I still catch mosquitoes for a living. But I do this mostly to improve people's lives and well-being. This has been called by some people the most dangerous animal on earth -- which unfortunately is true. But what do we really know about mosquitoes? It turns out we actually know very little. Consider the fact that at the moment our best practice against malaria are bednets -- insecticide treated bednets. We know now that across Africa you have widespread resistance to insecticides. And these are the same insecticides, the pyrethroid class, that are put on these bednets. We know now that these bednets protect you from bites but only minimally kill the mosquitoes that they should. What it means is that we've got to do more to be able to get to zero. And that's part of our duty.
女士们，先生们，如今我还是靠捕蚊为生 但主要是为了延长人们的寿命， 改善他们的生活。 有些人说，这是世界上最危险的动物 不幸的事， 事实确实如此 但是我们又对蚊子了解多少呢？ 结果表明，我们对蚊子了解甚微。 事实是我们现在对抗蚊子最实际的做法是 蚊帐－涂有驱蚊剂的蚊帐 我们得知，在整个非洲 普遍存在杀虫剂抵抗现象 蚊帐用的就是这种杀虫剂 除虫菊素类杀虫剂，它们被用在蚊帐上 我们现在知道，蚊帐能保护我们不受叮咬， 但是杀蚊效果很差，不尽人意。 这意味着，我们还要采取更多措施 才能把蚊虫消灭干净。 而这也是我们的职责。
At Ifakara Health Institute we focus very much on the biology of the mosquito, and we try to do this so we can identify new opportunities. A new approach. New ways to try and get new options that we can use together with things such as bednets to be able to get to zero. And I'm going to share with you a few examples of the things that my colleagues and myself do.
在Ifakara健康研究机构 我们主要研究蚊子的生物学特性 以便寻找新的机会 发现新的途径 新的方法，来寻找其他灭蚊方式 与蚊帐等传统手段结合 一同将蚊子消灭干净。 我要给你看我和我同事 做的新的东西。
Take this, for example. Mosquitoes breed in small pools of water. Not all of them are easy to find -- they can be scattered across villages, they can be as small as hoofprints. They can be behind your house or far from your house. And so, if you wanted to control mosquito larvae, it can actually be quite difficult to get them. What my colleagues and I have decided to do is to think about what if we used mosquitoes themselves to carry the insecticides from a place of our choice to their own breeding habitats so that whichever eggs they lay there shall not survive.
比如说这个， 蚊子在小水洼里繁殖 并不是所有的蚊子都容易发现 有的散布在村子各处 有的像蹄印一样小 有的就在你家后院， 有的却离你房子很远。 因此要想控制住蚊子卵 也是很困难的。 我和我的同事决定要做的是 想让蚊子自己 将杀蚊剂从我们指定的地点带到 它们繁殖的栖息地 消灭那个地方所有的蚊卵。
This is Dickson Lwetoijera. This is my colleague who runs this show at Ifakara. And he has demonstrated cleverly that you can actually get mosquitoes to come to the place where they normally come to get blood to pick up a dose of sterilants or insecticide, carry this back to their own breeding habitat and kill all their progeny. And we have demonstrated that you can do this and crush populations very, very rapidly. This is beautiful.
这是狄更斯·维托杰亚 我的同事，在Ifakara展示这一试验 他聪明的验证了可以让蚊子 从它常去采血的地方 采到带有杀菌剂或者杀虫剂的血液 然后把它们带到它们的繁殖地 杀掉它们所有的虫卵。 并且， 我们可以证实你可以做到 并很快的减少蚊子的数量 这太美了。
This is our mosquito city. It is the largest mosquito farm available in the world for malaria research. Here we have large-scale self-sustaining colonies of malaria mosquitoes that we rear in these facilities. Of course, they are disease-free. But what these systems allow us to do is to introduce new tools and test them immediately, very quickly, and see if we can crush these populations or control them in some way. And my colleagues have demonstrated that if you just put two or three positions where mosquitoes can go pick up these lethal substances, we can crush these colonies in just three months. That's autodissemination, as we call it.
这是我们的蚊子城市。 这是全世界最大的蚊子养殖基地 用于支持对疟疾的研究。 在这个基地里，我们养了一大批  自给自足的疟疾蚊子群体。 当然，它们是不携带任何疾病的 这些系统使我们可以 引进新技术并立即投入试验 非常快 并看看我们是否能消灭蚊子种群 或者设法控制它们 我的同事也证明了 只需在两三个地方投放致命物质 让蚊子去采集， 我们就可以将蚊群 在三个月内消灭干净。 我们称它为：自动化播散
But what if we could use the mosquitoes' sexual behavior to also control them? So, first of all I would like to tell you that actually mosquitoes mate in what we call swarms. Male mosquitoes usually congregate in clusters around the horizon, usually after sunset. The males go there for a dance, the females fly into that dance and select a male mosquito of their choice, usually the best-looking male in their view. They clump together and fall down onto the floor. If you watch this, it's beautiful. It's a fantastic phenomenon. This is where our mosquito-catching work gets really interesting. What we have seen, when we go swamp hunting in the villages, is that these swamp locations tend to be at exactly the same location every day, every week, every month, year in, year out. They start at exactly the same time of the evening, and they are at exactly the same locations. What does this tell us? It means that if we can map all these locations across villages, we could actually crush these populations by just a single blow. Kind of, you know, bomb-spray them or nuke them out. And that is what we try to do with young men and women across the villages. We organize these crews, teach them how to identify the swarms, and spray them out. My colleagues and I believe we have a new window to get mosquitoes out of the valley.
但是我们是否可以利用 蚊子的性行为 来控制它们？ 首先，我想跟你们说的是 蚊子其实是聚众交配的， 公蚊子通常成群结队的 聚集在地表面，太阳落山后 公蚊子去那里跳舞 母蚊子也过去跳舞， 并挑选一个她们看上的公蚊子， ——通常是那个看起来最英俊的。 它们聚集在一起，然后落到地上 你要看到这景象，你也会认为很美。 这真是一个太棒的现象了 这就是我们捕蚊工作的好玩之处 当我们到村里的沼泽去捕蚊子的时候会发现， 这些沼泽地总是固定不动的 每天，每周，每个月 年复一年。 它们每晚都在相同的时间开始交配， 它们也去相同的地点。 这给我们有什么启发呢？ 这就意味着，如果我们 可以在村子里找到这些地点 我们就能 把这些蚊子一网打尽。 就像，用炸弹覆盖或者核武器一样消灭它们 那就是我们和青年男女 在村子里尝试做的事 我们把这帮人组织起来， 教他们如何去辨认蚊群 并喷洒药物杀死它们。 我和我的同事相信 我们有新的机会 将蚊子赶出村子。
But perhaps the fact that mosquitoes eat blood, human blood, is the reason they are the most dangerous animal on earth. But think about it this way -- mosquitoes actually smell you. And they have developed incredible sensory organs. They can smell from as far sometimes as 100 meters away. And when they get closer, they can even tell the difference between two family members. They know who you are based on what you produce from your breath, skin, sweat and body odor. What we have done at Ifakara is to identify what it is in your skin, your body, your sweat or your breath that these mosquitoes like. Once we identified these substances, we created a concoction, kind of a mixture, a blend of synthetic substances that are reminiscent of what you produce from your body. And we made a synthetic blend that was attracting three to five times more mosquitoes than a human being. What can you do with this? You put in a trap, lure a lot of mosquitoes and you kill them, right? And of course, you can also use it for surveillance. At Ifakara we wish to expand our knowledge on the biology of the mosquito; to control many other diseases, including, of course, the malaria, but also those other diseases that mosquitoes transmit like dengue, Chikungunya and Zika virus. And this is why my colleagues, for example -- we have looked at the fact that some mosquitoes like to bite you on the leg region. And we've now created these mosquito repellent sandals that tourists and locals can wear when they're coming. And you don't get bitten -- this gives you 'round the clock protection until the time you go under your bednet.
但是事实是，这些蚊子吸血，吸人类的血 这就是为什么他们是世上最危险的动物 但是，请这样想－ 蚊子实际上是闻到了你的气味 而它们进化出了 不可思议的感觉器官 它们可以闻到100米开外的气味 它们离你很近的时候 连一家的两个不同成员都能区分出来。 它们通过你呼出的气体，  皮肤分泌物，汗液，体味 就能知道你是谁。 我们在Ifakara做的是 去鉴别来自你皮肤，你身体， 汗液和呼吸中 那些蚊子喜欢的东西。 一旦我们找到这种物质， 我们就可以做一种混合剂 一种合成物质 接近人类的体味。 我们做了一个合成的混合物 它吸引蚊子数量是人类能够吸引的3-5倍。 你可以用这个做什么？ 你埋下陷阱，吸引大批的蚊子， 然后再杀死它们，对吧？ 当然，它还可以起到监视作用 在Ifakara 我们希望可以拓展 我们在蚊子的生物学方面的知识 去控制其它的疾病，当然包括疟疾在内 还有通过蚊子传播的其他疾病 诸如登革热，奇昆古尼亚热病和寨卡病毒。 这也是为什么我的同事，比方说 我们发现 某些蚊子喜欢 叮你的大腿。 我们为此也发明了驱蚊凉鞋 保护游人和当地人 免遭蚊虫叮咬 因为这会给你随时随地的保护 直到你回到你的蚊帐里去
(Applause)
（掌声）
My love-hate relationship with mosquitoes continues.
我与蚊子的爱恨情仇还在继续
(Laughter)
（观众笑声）
And it's going to go a long way, I can see. But that's OK. WHO has set a goal of 2030 to eliminate malaria from 35 countries. The African Union has set a goal of 2030 to eliminate malaria from the continent. At Ifakara we are firmly behind these goals. And we've put together a cohort of young scientists, male and female, who are champions, who are interested in coming together to make this vision come true. They do what they can to make it work. And we are supporting them. We are here to make sure that these dreams come true.
我也知道灭蚊之路仍然任重道远。 但是，这也不错。 世卫组织定了一个目标， 在2030年消灭35个国家的疟疾。 非洲联合国家也定了个目标 在2030年将消灭非洲大陆的疟疾。 在Ifakara, 我们紧随目标 我们集合了一大批青年科学家 男女都有 他们是胜利者 愿意聚集在一起实现目标。 他们尽其所能 去实现目标。 而我们在支持他们。 我们来到这就是为了 使这个梦想成真。
Ladies and gentlemen, even if it doesn't happen in our lifetime, even if it doesn't happen before you and me go away, I believe that your child and my child shall inherit a world free of malaria transmitting mosquitoes and free of malaria. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
女士们，先生们 即便这一梦想没有 在我们有生之年起作用 我相信你的孩子，我的孩子、 也会享受一个没有传播疟疾的蚊子 也没有疟疾的世界。 女士们，先生们。非常感谢。
(Applause)
（掌声）
Thank you.
谢谢
Kelo Kubu: OK, Fredros. Let's talk about CRISPR for a bit.
凯勒·库巴： 好的， 费兰德 我们来聊点儿CRISPR吧
(Laughter)
（笑声）
It's taken the world by storm, it promises to do amazing things. What do you think of scientists using CRISPR to kill off mosquitoes?
这让整个世界很是震撼 它预示着能够做很多不可思议的事情 你怎么看科学家用CRISPR消灭蚊子
Fredros Okumu: To answer this question, let's start from what the problem is. First of all, we're talking about a disease that still kills -- according to the latest figures we have from WHO -- 429,000 people. Most of these are African children. Of course, we've made progress, there are countries that have achieved up to 50-60 percent reduction in malaria burden. But we still have to do more to get to zero. There is already proof of principle that gene-editing techniques, such as CRISPR, can be used effectively to transform mosquitoes so that either they do not transmit malaria -- we call this population alteration -- or that they no longer exist, population suppression. This is already proven in the lab.
费兰德：要回答这个问题， 我们就得先说一下问题的实质 首先，我们讲的是一个可以致人死亡的疾病 据世贸卫生组织最新数字表明 已有429,000人因此而死亡 多数是非洲儿童 当然，我们还是有成效的 有些国家已经 减少了50-60%的疟疾死亡率 但是要达到零死亡，还需要时间 已经有证据表明 基因编辑技术，比如CRISPR 可以有效的用来 改造蚊子，是他们不再传播疟疾 我们称它为人口替换 抑或是他们根本就不复存在了 蚊子数量骤减 这些已经通过实验证实了
There is also modeling work that has demonstrated that even if you were to release just a small number of these genetically modified mosquitoes, that you can actually achieve elimination very, very quickly. So, CRISPR and tools like this offer us some real opportunities -- real-life opportunities to have high-impact interventions that we can use in addition to what we have now to eventually go to zero. This is important. Now, of course people always ask us -- which is a common question, I guess you're going to ask this as well -- "What happens if you eliminate mosquitoes?"
有一个样板课题 已经证明了即使你去释放 少量这种经基因改造后的蚊子 就可以让你快速将蚊子消灭光。 因此，CRISPR和类似的工具 提供给我们真正的机会－ 存在于现实生活中的高效能干扰机会 可以供我们使用来增强 我们现在所有的 直到最后直到完全消灭 这很重要 现在，当然很多人都在问我们 这也是一个很普遍的问题 我猜想你也会这样问 “你们把所有的蚊子都消灭了又怎样？”
KK: I won't ask then, you answer.
凯：那我就不问了，你回答吧
FO: OK. In respect to this, I would just like to remind my colleagues that we have 3,500 mosquito species in this world. Maybe more than that. About 400 of these are Anophelenes, and only about 70 of them have any capacity to transmit malaria. In Africa, we're having to deal with three or four of these as the major guys. They carry most -- like 99 percent of all the malaria we have. If we were to go out with gene editing like CRISPR, if we were to go out with gene drives to control malaria, we would be going after only one or two. I don't see a diversity problem with that. But that's personal view. I think it's OK. And remember, by the way, all these years we've been trying to eliminate these mosquitoes effectively by spraying them -- our colleagues in America have sprayed with -- really bomb-spraying these insects out of the villages. In Africa we do a lot of household spraying. All these are aimed solely at killing the mosquitoes. So there's really no problem if we had a new tool.
费兰德：好的，鉴于这问题， 我需要提醒我的同事 告诉他们，在这世上有3500种蚊子 或许比这还多。 这其中400种是按蚊 它们当中的70是有能力传播疟疾的。 在非洲我们要去处理大概3到4个这种大家伙 它们能够携带我们所拥有的99%的疟疾。 如果我们要利用像CRISPR基因改造系统， 如果我们要利用基因去控制疟疾， 我们就只需要控制一两种 我不认为这有什么多元化的问题。 但是那仅是我的观点 我认为这很好 要记住，还有， 在这些年来我们一直在尝试去有效率的 通过喷雾来消灭它们－我在美国的同事 用炸弹喷雾工具来消灭将整个村子里的虫子 在非洲，我们用了很多家用喷蚊子的方法 所有这些都仅仅只能够杀灭蚊子 因此我们再发明个新工具也是没问题的
But having said that, I have to say we also have to be very, very responsible here. So there's the regulatory side, and we have to partner with our regulators and make sure that everything that we do is done correctly, is done responsibly and that we also have to do independent risk assessments, to just make sure that all these processes do not fall into the wrong hands. Thank you very much.
虽然我那样说，但是我还是不得不说 我也该越来越负责的说 但是，我们也有监管的， 我们要与我们的监管人合作 要确保我们做的所有事都正确， 都做的很负责任 我们还要去做独立的风险测定 仅仅为了确保 整个过程万无一失。 十分感谢
KK: Thank you.
谢谢
(Applause)
（掌声）