As you heard, I'm a physicist. And I think the way we talk about physics needs a little modification. I am from just down the road here; I don't live here anymore. But coming from round here means that I have a northern nana, my mum's mom. And Nana is very bright; she hasn't had much formal education, but she's sharp. And when I was a second-year undergraduate studying physics at Cambridge, I remember spending an afternoon at Nana's house in Urmston studying quantum mechanics. And I had these folders open in front of me with this, you know, hieroglyphics -- let's be honest. And Nana came along, and she looked at this folder, and she said, "What's that?" I said, "It's quantum mechanics, Nana." And I tried to explain something about what was on the page. It was to do with the nucleus and Einstein A and B coefficients. And Nana looked very impressed. And then she said, "Oh. What can you do when you know that?"
﻿就像刚才介绍的， 我是一名物理学家。 我觉得我们需要 稍微改变对物理的看法。
(Laughter)
我就出生在本地， 但我已经不住在这儿了。 我来自这里，意味着 我有一个北方外婆， 即我母亲的母亲。 外婆非常睿智， 她没有接受过多少正规教育， 但她很聪明。 我在剑桥物理系念大二时， 记得有一个下午， 我在厄姆斯顿的外婆家， 学习量子力学。
"Don't know, ma'am."
我打开了资料夹，
(Laughter)
老实讲，资料中的文字晦涩难懂。 这时，外婆走进来， 看到我面前的资料。 她问：“这是什么？” 我说：“外婆，这是量子力学。” 然后，我试着去解释那是什么， 解释书上讲的内容，
I think I said something about computers, because it was all I could think of at the time.
关于原子核，还有 爱因斯坦A、B系数的内容。
But you can broaden that question out, because it's a very good question -- "What can you do when you know that?" when "that" is physics? And I've come to realize that when we talk about physics in society and our sort of image of it, we don't include the things that we can do when we know that. Our perception of what physics is needs a bit of a shift. Not only does it need a bit of a shift, but sharing this different perspective matters for our society, and I'm not just saying that because I'm a physicist and I'm biased and I think we're the most important people in the world. Honest.
外婆看上去很惊讶， 然后她说，“哦， 那你知道了这些后 能做些什么呀？” （笑声） “我也不知道啊。” （笑声） 我想当时我说了些 跟电脑有关的事情， 因为这是当时 我唯一能想到的用途。
So, the image of physics -- we've got an image problem, let's be honest -- it hasn't moved on much from this. This is a very famous photograph that's from the Solvay Conference in 1927. This is when the great minds of physics were grappling with the nature of determinism and what it means only to have a probability that a particle might be somewhere, and whether any of it was real. And it was all very difficult. And you'll notice they're all very stern-looking men in suits. Marie Curie -- I keep maybe saying, "Marie Antoinette," which would be a turn-up for the books -- Marie Curie, third from the left on the bottom there, she was allowed in, but had to dress like everybody else.
不过你可以把那个问题延伸开来， 其实是一个很棒的问题。 “当你了解物理知识后， 你能做些什么？” 然后我意识到， 当我们在社会中谈起物理、 以及我们对它的看法时， 我们并没有把“学到知识后 能做些什么”考虑在内， 我们需要稍微转变对物理的看法， 不仅仅是稍微转变一下， 更重要的是，要向 社会传播这种不同的观点。 我这样说并非出于 一个物理学家的偏见， 或者觉得我们是 世界上最重要的人， 实话实说。
(Laughter)
坦白讲，我们对物理的看法 存在着一些问题， 而且一直以来 并没有什么大的改观。 这张著名的照片拍摄于 1927年的索尔维会议， 当时物理学大师们正合力解决 决定论的本质问题， 试图搞清一个粒子 可能出现在某个地方的概率
So, this is what physics is like -- there's all these kinds of hieroglyphics, these are to do with waves and particles. That is an artist's impression of two black holes colliding, which makes it look worth watching, to be honest. I'm glad I didn't have to write the risk assessment for whatever was going on there. The point is: this is the image of physics, right? It's weird and difficult, done by slightly strange people dressed in a slightly strange way. It's inaccessible, it's somewhere else and fundamentally, why should I care?
到底意味着什么， 以及这是不是真实的。
And the problem with that is that I'm a physicist, and I study this. This -- this is my job, right? I study the interface between the atmosphere and the ocean. The atmosphere is massive, the ocean is massive, and the thin layer that joins them together is really important, because that's where things go from one huge reservoir to the other. You can see that the sea surface -- that was me who took this video -- the average height of those waves by the way, was 10 meters. So this is definitely physics happening here -- there's lots of things -- this is definitely physics. And yet it's not included in our cultural perception of physics, and that bothers me.
这些都是很难解决的问题。 你们也许会注意到，他们都是 西装革履，不苟言笑的男人。 玛丽 · 居里，我经常会说成 ”玛丽 ·  安托瓦内特”（被送上断头台的法国王后）， 那历史可就要改写了—— 玛丽 · 居里在最前面一排的 左数第三位， 她获准参加会议， 但必须和其他人着装一致。
So what is included in our cultural perception of physics? Because I'm a physicist, there has to be a graph, right? That's allowed. We've got time along the bottom here, from very fast things there, to things that take a long time over here. Small things at the bottom, big things up there. So, our current cultural image of physics looks like this. There's quantum mechanics down in that corner, it's very small, it's very weird, it happens very quickly, and it's a long way down in the general ... on the scale of anything that matters for everyday life. And then there's cosmology, which is up there; very large, very far away, also very weird. And if you go to some places like black holes in the beginning of the universe, we know that these are frontiers in physics, right? There's lots of work being done to discover new physics in these places.
（笑声）
But the thing is, you will notice there's a very large gap in the middle. And in that gap, there are many things. There are planets and toasts and volcanoes and clouds and clarinets and bubbles and dolphins and all sorts of things that make up our everyday life. And these are also run by physics, you'd be surprised -- there is physics in the middle, it's just that nobody talks about it. And the thing about all of these is that they all run on a relatively small number of physical laws, things like Newton's laws of motion, thermodynamics, some rotational dynamics. The physics in the middle applies over a huge range, from very, very small things to very, very big things. You have to try very hard to get outside of this. And there is also a frontier in research physics here, it's just that nobody talks about it. This is the world of the complex. When these laws work together, they bring about the beautiful, messy, complex world we live in.
这就是人们对物理的印象， ——所有的一切都晦涩难懂， 讲的都是与波和粒子有关的事情。 这张图片是以艺术家视角 展现的两个碰撞的黑洞， 老实讲，这让它 看上去有了观赏价值， 庆幸的是——我不必 为那里发生的事情 写一篇风险评估报告。
Fundamentally, this is the bit that really matters to me on an everyday basis. And this is the bit that we don't talk about. There's plenty of physics research going on here. But because it doesn't involve pointing at stars, people for some reason think it's not that. Now, the cool thing about this is that there are so many things in this middle bit, all following the same physical laws, that we can see those laws at work almost all the time around us.
我想说的是，这就是 物理通常给人的印象，对吧？ 很古怪，而且很难， 研究物理的都是 一帮着装怪异的怪人们， 它遥不可及、离我们很远， 说到底，我干嘛要关心这些呢？
I've got a little video here. So the game is, one of these eggs is raw and one of them has been boiled. I want you to tell me which one is which. Which one's raw?
问题在于， 我是一名物理学家， 我研究这个。 这就是我的工作， 我研究大气与海洋的交界面， 大气是广袤的， 海洋也一望无际， 它们之间存在 一个薄层，将二者相连， 这个薄层非常重要， 经由这个薄层，物质才能 在巨大的容器间传递。 你能看到海面—— 这是我拍摄的视频—— 那些海浪平均高达10米。 这个过程绝对存在着物理原理—— 很多事情正在发生—— 是绝对的物理现象。 然而，我们对物理的认知中 并没有包括这些。 这让我很困扰。
(Audience responds)
通常我们对物理的认知包括哪些呢？ 我是个物理学家， 所以就离不开用图表说话，对吧？ 合情合理！ 底部横轴代表时间， 左侧是快速发生的事情， 最右边的则需要比较长的时间； 小东西在纵轴底部， 大家伙在最上面， 我们对物理的文化认识大致如此。 最左下角是量子力学， 非常小、非常难以捉摸， 它发生的速度很快， 总体来说，量子力学 在坐标轴最下方...... 与我们日常生活事物 相比较而言的话。 然后就是宇宙， 就在右上角那里。 它非常大、非常遥远， 也非常诡异。 如果你在宇宙形成之初 去了一些地方， 比如黑洞， 它们就交织在宇宙背后，
The one on the left -- yes! And even though you might not have tried that, you all knew. The reason for that is, you set them spinning, and when you stop the cooked egg, the one that's completely solid, you stop the entire egg. When you stop the other one, you only stop the shell; the liquid inside is still rotating because nothing's made it stop. And then it pushes the shell round again, so the egg starts to rotate again. This is brilliant, right? It's a demonstration of something in physics that we call the law of conservation of angular momentum, which basically says that if you set something spinning about a fixed axis, that it will keep spinning unless you do something to stop it. And that's really fundamental in how the universe works. And it's not just eggs that it applies to, although it's really useful if you're the sort of person -- and apparently, these people do exist -- who will boil eggs and then put them back in the fridge. Who does that? Don't admit to it -- it's OK. We won't judge you. But it's also got much broader applicabilities.
我们都知道 这些是物理学的前沿，对吧？ 要做很多工作，才能在这些地方 发现新的物理学。
This is the Hubble Space Telescope. The Hubble Ultra Deep Field, which is a very tiny part of the sky. Hubble has been floating in free space for 25 years, not touching anything. And yet it can point to a tiny region of sky. For 11 and a half days, it did it in sections, accurately enough to take amazing images like this. So the question is: How does something that is not touching anything know where it is? The answer is that right in the middle of it, it has something that, to my great disappointment, isn't a raw egg, but basically does the same job. It's got gyroscopes which are spinning, and because of the law of conservation of angular momentum, they keep spinning with the same axis, indefinitely. Hubble kind of rotates around them, and so it can orient itself. So the same little physical law we can play with in the kitchen and use, also explains what makes possible some of the most advanced technology of our time. So this is the fun bit of physics, that you learn these patterns and then you can apply them again and again and again. And it's really rewarding when you spot them in new places. This is the fun of physics.
但问题是，你会注意到 中间缺少了一大块， 在这缺少的一大块中， 有非常多的东西。 其中有行星、吐司、火山、云彩， 有单簧管、气泡和海豚， 各种各样组成我们日常生活的东西。 你可能会惊讶的是， 这些也是由物理学支撑的， 中间的部分也有物理学存在， 只是没人谈论它而已。 所有这一切的一切，  它们的运转都遵循着 一小部分的物理定律， 例如牛顿的运动定律、 热力学、 一些旋转动力学。 中间这部分涉及到的 物理学范围极其广泛， 从很小的事物，到很大的现象。 你很难脱离开这个领域。 这里也有前沿的研究物理学， 只是没人会谈论它。 这是一个复杂的世界。 当这些原理协同作用时，就产生了 我们所居住的 美妙、混乱和复杂的世界。
I have shown that egg video to an audience full of businesspeople once and they were all dressed up very smartly and trying to impress their bosses. And I was running out of time, so I showed the egg video and then said, "Well, you can work it out, and ask me afterwards to check." Then I left the stage. And I had, literally, middle-aged grown men tugging on my sleeve afterwards, saying, "Is it this? Is it this?" And when I said, "Yes." They went, "Yes!"
从根本上讲， 这才是基于日常生活， 对我意义重大的那部分， 也是我们没有谈论的部分。 这里包含了大量的物理研究， 但是由于它不涉及天文学观测， 人们出于某种原因， 认为这里不涉及物理学。 但真正有趣的是，中间领域 包含了许多事物， 都遵从同样的物理定律， 我们能看到这些定律 在我们身边一直作用着。
(Laughter)
我这里有一段视频： 其中一个鸡蛋是生的， 另一个是煮熟的， 我希望你能区分出它们。 哪一个是生鸡蛋？
The joy that you get from spotting these patterns doesn't go away when you're an adult.
（观众回应）
And that's really important, because physics is all about patterns, and a small number of patterns give you access to almost all of the physics in our everyday world. The thing that's best about this is it involves playing with toys. Things like the egg shouldn't be dismissed as the mundane little things that we just give the kids to play with on a Saturday afternoon to keep them quiet. This is the stuff that actually really matters, because this is the laws of the universe and it applies to eggs and toast falling butter-side down and all sorts of other things, just as much as it applies to modern technology and anything else that's going on in the world. So I think we should play with these patterns.
左边这个？ 回答正确！ 即使你没试过，也都知道答案。 原因在于， 当你把它们转动起来， 再用手停住煮熟的鸡蛋时， 因为它已全部成为固体， 你就停住了整只鸡蛋。 当你停住另一只鸡蛋时， 你只是停住了鸡蛋壳， 里面的液体仍在旋转， 因为没有力量去停止它。 之后它会带动蛋壳再次旋转， 因此，鸡蛋再次转动起来。 很奇妙，不是么？
Basically, there are a small number of concepts that you can become familiar with using things in your kitchen, that are really useful for life in the outside world. If you want to learn about thermodynamics, a duck is a good place to start, for example, why their feet don't get cold. Once you've got a bit of thermodynamics with the duck, you can also explain fridges. Magnets that you can play with in your kitchen get you to wind turbines and modern energy generation. Raisins in [fizzy] lemonade, which is always a good thing to play with. If you're at a boring party, fish some raisins out of the bar snacks, put them in some lemonade. It's got three consequences. First thing is, it's quite good to watch; try it. Secondly, it sends the boring people away. Thirdly, it brings the interesting people to you. You win on all fronts. And then there's spin and gas laws and viscosity. There's these little patterns, and they're right around us everywhere. And it's fundamentally democratic, right? Everybody has access to the same physics; you don't need a big, posh lab.
这证明了物理学的一些东西， 就是我们所说的动量守恒定律， 它讲的是，如果你让什么东西 沿固定轴转动， 它会一直旋转， 直到有外力迫使它停下。 而这正是宇宙运转的基础。 并非只有鸡蛋遵从这个规律， 虽然这很有用， 如果你是这样的人—— 显然这样的人确实存在—— 他们把鸡蛋煮熟， 然后再放回到冰箱。 谁会这样做？别急着承认—— 没关系，没人会品头论足。 但物理也有更广泛的应用性。
When I wrote the book, I had the chapter on spin. I had written a bit about toast falling butter-side down. I gave the chapter to a friend of mine who's not a scientist, for him to read and tell me what he thought, and he took the chapter away. He was working overseas. I got this text message back from him a couple of weeks later, and it said, "I'm at breakfast in a posh hotel in Switzerland, and I really want to push toast off the table, because I don't believe what you wrote." And that was the good bit -- he doesn't have to. He can push the toast off the table and try it for himself.
这是哈勃太空望远镜、 哈勃超深场， 它只观测太空很小的一部分。 哈勃望远镜 已漂浮在太空中25年， 还没撞到过什么东西， 它可以指向一小片区域， 一张张地拍照，历时11.5天， 就足够精确地拍摄出 像这样的精美图片。 那么问题在于， 一个物体如何才能 不碰到其他东西？ 如何知道自己所处的位置？ 答案是，就在中间的这片区域中， 让我极度失望的是， 存在的东西不是生鸡蛋， 但基本原理与其相似。 它有正在旋转的陀螺仪， 根据动量守恒定律， 它们以同一个轴为中心， 保持旋转、永不停息。 哈勃望远镜像是在围绕其运动， 因此它可以为自己导向。
And so there's two important things to know about science: the fundamental laws we've learned through experience and experimentation, work. The day we drop an apple and it goes up, then we'll have a debate about gravity. Up to that point, we basically know how gravity works, and we can learn the framework. Then there's the process of experimentation: having confidence in things, trying things out, critical thinking -- how we move science forward -- and you can learn both of those things by playing with toys in the everyday world.
我们可以在厨房应用 同样的物理小定律， 这也解释了为什么 我们这个时代产生了 如此多的高新科技。 这就是物理有趣的地方， 你了解了这些模式， 然后就可以一次又次地应用它们。 当你发现它们应用在新领域时， 会觉得非常有成就感。 这就是物理的乐趣所在。
And it's really important, because there's all this talk about technology, we've heard talks about quantum computing and all these mysterious, far-off things. But fundamentally, we still live in bodies that are about this size, we still walk about, sit on chairs that are about this size, we still live in the physical world. And being familiar with these concepts means we're not helpless. And I think it's really important that we're not helpless, that society feels it can look at things, because this isn't about knowing all the answers. It's about having the framework so you can ask the right questions. And by playing with these fundamental little things in everyday life, we gain the confidence to ask the right questions.
我曾经将鸡蛋视频展示给 一些来自商业领域的人们， 他们都西装笔挺， 试图给老板留下好印象。 当时我的演讲时间不多了， 就播放了刚才的鸡蛋视频， 说道：“你们可以想想， 然后跟我确认是否正确”。 然后我就离开了讲台。 稍后，毫不夸张地说， 这些中年人后来拉着我的衣袖问： “是不是这个？是不是这个呀？” 当我回答“是”的时候， 他们激动地喊出“噢耶！”
So, there's a bigger thing. In answer to Nana's question about what can you do when you know that -- because there's lots of stuff in the everyday world that you can do when you know that, especially if you've got eggs in the fridge -- there's a much deeper answer. And so there's all the fun and the curiosity that you could have playing with toys. By the way -- why should kids have all the fun, right? All of us can have fun playing with toys, and we shouldn't be embarrassed about it. You can blame me, it's fine.
（笑声）
So when it comes to reasons for studying physics, for example, here is the best reason I can think of: I think that each of us has three life-support systems. We've got our own body, we've got a planet and we've got our civilization. Each of those is an independent life-support system, keeping us alive in its own way. And they all run on the fundamental physical laws that you can learn in the kitchen with eggs and teacups and lemonade, and everything else you can play with. This is the reason, for example, why something like climate change is such a serious problem, because It's two of these life-support systems, our planet and our civilization, kind of butting up against each other; they're in conflict, and we need to negotiate that boundary.
发现这些规律的乐趣， 不会因为你的成年而消失。
And the fundamental physical laws that we can learn that are the way the world around us works, are the tools at the basis of everything; they're the foundation. There's lots of things to know about in life, but knowing the foundations is going to get you a long way. And I think this, if you're not interested in having fun with physics or anything like that -- strange, but apparently, these people exist -- you surely are interested in keeping yourself alive and in how our life-support systems work. The framework for physics is remarkably constant; it's the same in lots and lots of things that we measure. It's not going to change anytime soon. They might discover some new quantum mechanics, but apples right here are still going to fall down.
这一点尤为重要， 因为物理全部在于规律， 这些为数不多的规律， 能够让你接触到 日常生活中的所有物理知识， 最棒的是，它和玩玩具有关。 像鸡蛋这样的东西，不应当 被视为无聊小物而被忽视， 我们可以在周六下午 拿这种东西给孩子玩， 让他们安静一会儿。 实际上，这才是真正重要的东西， 因为这就是 宇宙定律应用在鸡蛋上， 面包片抹了黄油的那面会先着地， 当然还有其它类似的现象。 这些现象与现代科技 运用的原理相同， 世界上其他现象也是如此。 因此我认为， 我们应该学会玩转这些规律，
So, the question is -- I get asked sometimes: How do you start? What's the place to start if you're interested in the physical world, in not being helpless, and in finding some toys to play with? Here is my suggestion to you: the place to start is that moment -- and adults do this -- you're drifting along somewhere, and you spot something and your brain goes, "Oh, that's weird." And then your consciousness goes, "You're an adult. Keep going." And that's the point -- hold that thought -- that bit where your brain went, "Oh, that's a bit odd," because there's something there to play with, and it's worth you playing with it, so that's the place to start.
基本上来说， 当你使用厨房里的工具时， 会对一小部分概念熟悉起来， 在外界的生活中， 这些概念也同样适用。 如果你想学习热动力学， 鸭子就是一个不错的开始。 譬如，为何它们的 脚蹼从来不会变凉？ 一旦你从鸭子身上 弄懂了一点热动力学， 你就可以解释冰箱的工作原理。 你在厨房使用的磁铁， 会让你学到风力涡轮机 和现代能源产生的原理。 再比如苏打柠檬水里的葡萄干， 也是经常可以把玩的东西。 如果你在派对上很无聊， 可以从零食上取下点葡萄干， 把它们放到柠檬水里， 会得到三种结果： 第一，它的观赏性很好， 不妨试试看； 第二，它把无聊的人赶跑了； 第三，它会把有趣的人吸引过来！ 一箭三雕！ 还有旋转和气体定律以及粘滞性， 这些都是我们身边 无处不在的小规律。 这些基本上人人可见， 人人都能接触到同样的物理学， 不是只有光鲜的实验室里才会有。
But if you don't have any of those little moments on your way home from this event, here are some things to start with. Put raisins in [fizzy] lemonade; highly entertaining. Watch a coffee spill dry. I know that sounds a little bit like watching paint dry, but it does do quite weird things; it's worth watching. I'm an acquired taste at dinner parties if there are teacups around. There are so many things you can do to play with teacups, it's brilliant. The most obvious one is to get a teacup, get a spoon, tap the teacup around the rim and listen, and you will hear something strange. And the other thing is, push your toast off the table because you can, and you'll learn stuff from it. And if you're feeling really ambitious, try and push it off in such a way that it doesn't fall butter-side down, which is possible.
当我写这本书的时候， 有一章是专门讲旋转的， 我写了一点点关于 面包片抹了黄油那面先着地， 然后把这一章 给一位非科学家朋友看， 让他告诉我读后感。 他把这一章拿走了， 他在海外工作， 几周之后我才收到他的来信。 信里写道：“我正在瑞士的 一家时尚酒店吃早餐， 我很想把面包片推下桌子， 因为我不相信你写的内容！“ 这正是好玩的地方—— 他根本没必要相信我， 只需把面包片推下桌子， 自己试试就好啦！
The point of all of this is that, first of all, we should all play with toys. We shouldn't be afraid to investigate the physical world for ourselves with the tools around us, because we all have access to them. It matters, because if we want to understand society, if we want to be good citizens, we need to understand the framework on which everything else must be based.
因此，关于科学 有两件事非常重要： 我们通过经验和实验 得到的基本法则 是成立的。 如果我们某天扔出苹果后， 苹果向上走， 那我们就要 好好辩论一下重力作用了。 那一刻，我们基本上 已了解重力的作用原理， 我们可以了解其框架； 接下来就是实验过程了： 对某个事情有信心， 对事情进行验证， 并进行批判性思维—— 我们如何推动科学向前—— 而且，你还可以 通过日常生活中的玩具 来学习这两方面的技能。
Playing with toys is great. Understanding how to keep our life-support systems going is great. But fundamentally, the thing that we need to change in the way that we talk about physics, is we need to understand that physics isn't out there with weird people and strange hieroglyphics for somebody else in a posh lab. Physics is right here; it's for us, and we can all play with it.
这一点十分重要， 因为我们本次讲的技术、 听说过的量子计算、 还有其他神秘的、 离我们很远的东西。 但究其根本，我们 依然生活在这么大的身体中， 我们依然走来走去， 坐在这么大的椅子上， 我们仍然生活在物理世界中。 熟悉这些概念 意味着我们不会有无助感， 而且，我认为 没有无助感是非常重要的， 社会觉得能够思考 是非常重要的， 因为它是关于 要了解所有的答案， 而是在于你了解了框架后， 可以正确地提出问题。 通过把玩这些日常生活中 基本的小东西， 我们会拥有正确提问的信心。
Thank you very much.
还有一件更重要的事要说。 在回答奶奶的问题 “当你了解这些后， 你能够做些什么”—— 因为在你了解这些物理规律后， 在日常世界中就可以做很多事情， 尤其是如果你冰箱有鸡蛋的时候—— 而这个问题 现在有了更深刻的答案。 当你玩玩具时， 会获得极大乐趣，还有好奇心， 顺便说一句—— 为何只有孩子能玩乐呢？ 我们大家都可以 通过玩玩具来获得乐趣， 而且我们不应对此感到难为情。 没关系，你可以把责任推到我头上。
(Applause)
比如，说到学习物理的原因， 我能想到的最好的原因就是： 我认为每个人都有 三个支撑我们生活的系统， 即我们的身体、我们的星球、 和我们的文明。 每一个都是 独立的生活支撑系统， 以其独特的方式 维持着我们的生存； 它们都遵循 基本的物理定律运行着， 你可以在厨房用鸡蛋、 茶杯和柠檬水学到这些定律， 也可以通过 其它任何能玩的东西学到。 这就是为什么说  像气候变化类的事情 是一个严峻的问题的原因， 因为它影响到 两个生命支持系统： 我们的星球和我们的文明， 使二者互相碰撞； 它们之间出现冲突， 这就需要我们去确定界限。