There are no bad buttons, there are only bad people. How does that sound? OK?
﻿没有不好的扣子，只有不好的人。 那听起来真么样？可以吗？
[Small thing.] [Big idea.]
“小物件” “大想法”
[Isaac Mizrahi on the Button]
“Issac Mizrahi 谈纽扣”
No one knows who invented the button. It might have shown up as early as 2,000 BCE. It was decorative when it first started, just something pretty sewn onto your clothes. Then about 3,000 years later, someone finally invented the buttonhole, and buttons were suddenly useful.
没有人知道是谁发明了纽扣。 早在公元2000年前纽扣就有可能出现了。 开始时它是用于装饰的， 就是一种缝在衣服上好看的东西。 大概3000年以后， 人们最终发明了扣眼， 然后纽扣就突然有利用价值了。
The button and the buttonhole is such a great invention. Not only does it slip through the buttonhole, but then it kind of falls into place, and so you're completely secure, like it's never going to open. The design of a button hasn't changed much since the Middle Ages. It's one of the most enduring designs in history.
纽扣和扣眼是伟大的发明。 不仅纽扣可以滑入扣眼， 而且还固定在位。 因此你会感到很有安全感， 就像它永远不会敞开一样。 从中世纪以来，纽扣的设计 并没有发生多么大的变化。  这是历史上经久不衰的设计之一。
For me, the best buttons are usually round. There's either a dome button with a little shank, or there's just this sort of round thing with either a rim or not a rim, either two holes or four holes. Almost more important than the button is the buttonhole. And the way you figure that out is: the diameter of the button plus the width of the button, plus a little bit of ease.
对我来说， 最好的纽扣是圆的。 不管是带有小柄的 钟形纽扣， 亦或是这样圆的带边或不带边的， 有两个洞或四个洞的。 比纽扣更为重要的是扣眼。 你可以通过以下方式知道扣眼长度： 扣子的直径和厚度，  再留上一点儿空隙。
Before buttons, clothes were bigger -- they were more kind of amorphous, and people, like, wriggled into them or just kind of wrapped themselves in things. But then fashion moved closer to the body as we discovered uses for the button. At one time, it was the one way to make clothes fit against the body.
在扣子出现以前 衣服都显得很大—— 他们就是一些没有形状的东西， 人们就转进衣服里去， 或者将他们缠在身上。 当我们开始使用扣子的时候， 时尚悄悄的接近我们身体。 一时间，纽扣可以让衣服更合身。
I think the reason buttons have endured for so long, historically, is because they actually work to keep our clothes shut. Zippers break; Velcro makes a lot of noise, and it wears out after a while. If a button falls off, you just literally sew that thing on. A button is kind of there for the long run. It's not just the most elemental design ever, it's also such a crazy fashion statement. When I was a kid, my mom knit me this beautiful sweater. I didn't like it. And then I found these buttons, and the minute the buttons were on the sweater, I loved it.
我认为，纵观历史， 纽扣之所以经久不衰， 是因为它能够 扣住我们的衣服。  拉链会坏； 粘扣有噪音，并且 用一阵子后也会坏。 如果扣子掉了， 你把他们缝上就好了。 扣子的发明就是 为了长久使用的。 它不仅是最基本的设计 也宣告了一个时尚风潮的开始。 我小时候，我母亲 给我织了这件漂亮的外套。 我不喜欢它。 但是我发现了这些纽扣， 当毛衣缝上了纽扣， 我立马就喜欢上它了。
If you don't have good taste and you can't pick out a button, then let someone else do it, you know? I mean that.
如果你没什么品味 你也不会挑选纽扣， 那就让懂行的帮助你吧，你明白吗？ 我就是那个意思。