We're at a critical moment. Our leaders, some of our great institutions are failing us. Why? In some cases, it's because they're bad or unethical, but often, they've taken us to the wrong objectives. And this is unacceptable. This has to stop. How are we going to correct these wrongs? How are we going to choose the right course? It's not going to be easy.
﻿我们正处在一个关键时刻。 我们的领导者， 一些重要的机构 正在辜负我们的期待。 为什么？ 在某些案例中，因为他们心怀不轨 或违背了职业道德， 但通常是因为他们把我们 带向了错误的目标。 而这是让人无法接受的。 这样的情况应当到此为止。 我们该如何纠正这些错误？ 我们该如何选择正确的道路？ 这并非易事。
For years, I've worked with talented teams and they've chosen the right objectives and the wrong objectives. Many have succeeded, others of them have failed. And today I'm going to share with you what really makes a difference -- that's what's crucial, how and why they set meaningful and audacious goals, the right goals for the right reasons.
多年来我一直在与杰出的团队共事， 他们或在正确的道路上前进， 或选错了目标而事与愿违。 许多目标成功达成了，有些则遭遇了失败。 今天我要和你分享的是 真正能够带来改变的事情—— 即问题的关键所在， 他们为何以及如何 制定出有意义的、大胆的目标， 即有正当理由的，正确的目标。
Let's go back to 1975. Yep, this is me. I've got a lot to learn, I'm a computer engineer, I've got long hair, but I'm working under Andy Grove, who's been called the greatest manager of his or any other era. Andy was a superb leader and also a teacher, and he said to me, "John, it almost doesn't matter what you know. Execution is what matters the most." And so Andy invented a system called "Objectives and Key Results." It kind of rolls off the tongue, doesn't it? And it's all about excellent execution. So here's a classic video from the 1970s of professor Andy Grove.
让我们回到1975年。 没错，这就是我。 当时我是个计算机工程师， 还有很多东西要学。 我留着长发， 在安迪 · 葛洛夫手下工作， 在任何时代，他都 称得上是最伟大的管理者。 安迪不仅是一流的领导者，也是一名导师。 他曾对我说：“约翰， 你所知道的东西并不重要， 执行才是最重要的。” 安迪发明了一个系统， 称为“目标和关键成果法”。 听起来是不是有点绕口？ 其核心全在于出色的执行。 以下是一段1970年代的经典录像， 录像里出现的就是安迪 · 葛洛夫教授。
(Video) Andy Grove: The two key phrases of the management by objective systems are the objectives and the key results, and they match the two purposes. The objective is the direction. The key results have to be measured, but at the end you can look and without any argument say, "Did I do that, or did I not do that?" Yes. No. Simple.
（录像）安迪 · 葛洛夫： 这种目标管理的两个关键词是 “目标”和“关键成果”， 它们分别对应着两个目的： 目标是方向， 关键成果需要得到评估， 但是最终结果显而易见，根本不需要出现 “我做了这个吗，或者根本没做？” 那样的争论，是或否，就是这么简单。
John Doerr: That's Andy. Yes. No. Simple. Objectives and Key Results, or OKRs, are a simple goal-setting system and they work for organizations, they work for teams, they even work for individuals. The objectives are what you want to have accomplished. The key results are how I'm going to get that done. Objectives. Key results. What and how. But here's the truth: many of us are setting goals wrong, and most of us are not setting goals at all. A lot of organizations set objectives and meet them. They ship their sales, they introduce their new products, they make their numbers, but they lack a sense of purpose to inspire their teams.
约翰 · 杜尔：这就是安迪。 是或否，就是这么简单。 目标和关键成果法 也称为OKRs， 是一个简单的目标制定方法。 它适用于组织还有团队， 甚至也适用于个人。 目标就是你想实现的事情， 关键成果是你要如何达成目标。 目标，以及关键成果， 就是要做什么和如何实现。 但真实的情况是： 我们中有许多人都制定了错误的目标， 大多数人甚至完全不设定目标。 许多组织机构设定目标并努力实现它们。 这些组织发货，研发新产品， 他们不断获得收益， 但缺少激励团队的使命感。
So how do you set these goals the right way? First, you must answer the question, "Why?" Why? Because truly transformational teams combine their ambitions to their passion and to their purpose, and they develop a clear and compelling sense of why.
那么该如何正确地设定目标呢？ 首先你必须回答一个问题：“为什么？” 为什么这么问？ 因为真正变革型的团队 都会将自己的雄心、 热情和目标结合到一起。 他们很清楚为何要做，且理由令人信服。
I want to tell you a story. I work with a remarkable entrepreneur. Her name is Jini Kim. She runs a company called Nuna. Nuna is a health care data company. And when Nuna was founded, they used data to serve the health needs of lots of workers at large companies. And then two years into the company's life, the federal government issued a proposal to build the first ever cloud database for Medicaid. Now, you'll remember that Medicaid is that program that serves 70 million Americans, our poor, our children and people with disabilities. Nuna at the time was just 15 people and this database had to be built in one year, and they had a whole set of commitments that they had to honor, and frankly, they weren't going to make very much money on the project. This was a bet-your-company moment, and Jini seized it. She jumped at the opportunity. She did not flinch. Why? Well, it's a personal why. Jini's younger brother Kimong has autism. And when he was seven, he had his first grand mal seizure at Disneyland. He fell to the ground. He stopped breathing. Jini's parents are Korean immigrants. They came to the country with limited resources speaking little English, so it was up to Jini to enroll her family in Medicaid. She was nine years old. That moment defined her mission, and that mission became her company, and that company bid on, won and delivered on that contract. Here's Jini to tell you why.
我想要告诉大家一个故事， 有一位与我共事的出色的企业家， 她的名词是金基妮(Jini Kim)。 她运营着一家公司，叫做Nuna。 这是一家健康护理数据公司。 公司初创时， 他们使用数据为大企业的 很多员工提供健康服务。 公司成立两年后， 联邦政府发布了一项提案， 要成立首个用于医疗救助 制度的云数据库。 你们知道医疗救助制度 为7千万美国人服务， 包括贫困人群，儿童， 以及残障人士。 Nuna公司在当时只有15个人， 这个数据库要在一年内建成， 他们有一系列承诺需要履行。 坦白讲，这个项目 并不能让他们大赚一笔。 这是赌上公司的时刻， 而基妮把握住了它。 她扑向了这个机会，她没有退缩。 为什么？ 这事关个人原因。 基妮的弟弟津孟(Kimong)患有自闭症， 在七岁时， 他第一次发病 是在迪士尼乐园。 他倒在地上，停止了呼吸。 基妮的父母都是韩裔移民， 他们身无长物来到这个国家， 也不太会讲英语， 所以只能靠基妮 帮家人加入医疗救助系统。 她当时只有九岁。 这个重大时刻决定了她的使命， 而这项使命成就了她公司， 这家公司竞标，赢得并实现了这个合同。 让基妮来告诉你她这样做的原因。
(Video) Jini Kim: Medicaid saved my family from bankruptcy, and today it provides for Kimong's health and for millions of others. Nuna is my love letter to Medicaid. Every row of data is a life whose story deserves to be told with dignity.
（视频）金基妮：医疗救助 使我的家庭免于破产， 如今它为津孟和其他 数百万患者提供健康服务。 Nuna是我给医疗救助的一封情书。 每一条数据都是一个生命， 它的故事需要有尊严地被讲述。
JD: And Jini's story tells us that a compelling sense of why can be the launchpad for our objectives. Remember, that's what we want to have accomplished. And objectives are significant, they're action-oriented, they are inspiring, and they're a kind of vaccine against fuzzy thinking. You think a rockstar would be an unlikely user of Objectives and Key Results, but for years, Bono has used OKRs to wage a global war against poverty and disease, and his ONE organization has focused on two really gorgeous, audacious objectives. The first is debt relief for the poorest countries in the world. The next is universal access to anti-HIV drugs. Now, why are these good objectives? Let's go back to our checklist. Significant? Check. Concrete? Yes. Action-oriented? Yes. Inspirational? Well, let's just listen to Bono.
约翰 · 杜尔：基妮的故事告诉我们， 一种极具说服力的原因 能够成为目标的发射平台。 要记得，这是我们想要达成的事情。 目标是重要的， 它们以行动为指向， 它们激励人心， 是对抗纷乱思绪的一针疫苗。 你以为一个摇滚明星， 不太可能使用目标成果法， 但是数年以来， 博诺（Bono）通过使用OKRs 掀起了一场对抗贫穷和 疾病的全球战争。 他的One组织专注在两个目标上， 它们非常棒，也非常大胆。 第一个目标 是为世界上最贫穷的国家减轻债务； 第二个则是普及抗艾滋病药物。 如今，这些目标完成的怎么样了？ 让我们回到我们的检查清单。 这些目标重要么？是的。 这些目标具体么？是的。 它们以行动为导向么？是的。 是否激励人心？ 还是让我们听听博诺怎么说。
(Video) Bono: So you're passionate? How passionate? What actions does your passion lead you to do? If the heart doesn't find a perfect rhyme with the head, then your passion means nothing. The OKR framework cultivates the madness, the chemistry contained inside it. It gives us an environment for risk, for trust, where failing is not a fireable offense. And when you have that sort of structure and environment and the right people, magic is around the corner.
（视频）博诺：你有热情么？ 有多大热情？ 你的热情引导出了你的什么行动？ 如果内心找不到与大脑和谐的韵律， 你的热情就毫无用处。 OKRs框架可以培养出疯狂的想法， 里面包含着化学火花。 它给了我们一个环境，为了风险， 为了信任， 在这里，失败不是可怕的犯罪。 当你有了这种结构和环境， 加上对的人， 奇迹就会出现。
JD: I love that. OKRs cultivate the madness, and magic is right around the corner. This is perfect.
约翰 · 杜尔：我很喜欢这段话， OKRs培养出疯狂的想法， 奇迹就会出现。 这简直完美。
So with Jini we've covered the whys, with Bono the whats of goal-setting. Let's turn our attention to the hows. Remember, the hows are the key results. That's how we meet our objectives. And good results are specific and time-bound. They're aggressive but realistic. They're measurable, and they're verifiable. Those are good key results.
通过基妮，我们看到了原因， 通过博诺，我们了解了目标设定。 让我们再来关注方法。 如何做是关键结果。 这就是我们实现目标的方法。 好的结果是明确且有时间限制的。 它们很激进但也很现实， 它们可衡量也可评估， 这就是好的关键成果。
In 1999, I introduced OKRs to Google's cofounders, Larry and Sergey. Here they are, 24 years old in their garage. And Sergey enthusiastically said he'd adopt them. Well, not quite. What he really said was, "We don't have any other way to manage this company, so we'll give it a go."
1999年，我向谷歌的 联合创始人拉里和谢尔盖 介绍了OKRs。 这是24岁时的他们在自家的车库里。 谢尔盖充满热情地说打算采用这个方法。 然而，确切地说， 他真正说的是： “我们没有其他的方法来管理这家公司， 所以不如试一下。“
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And I took that as a kind of endorsement. But every quarter since then, every Googler has written down her objectives and her key results. They've graded them, and they've published them for everyone to see. And these are not used for bonuses or for promotions. They're set aside. They're used for a higher purpose, and that's to get collective commitment to truly stretch goals.
我将其视为某种认可。 从那之后的每个季度， 每一个谷歌人写下的目标和关键成果， 都会得到他们的评价， 然后公布给每个人看。 这些内容并不被用于奖金或升职， 就是摆在那里， 用于实现更高的目标—— 那就是获取共同责任感 以真正推动目标。
In 2008, a Googler, Sundar Pichai, took on an objective which was to build the next generation client platform for the future of web applications -- in other words, build the best browser. He was very thoughtful about how he chose his key results. How do you measure the best browser? It could be ad clicks or engagement. No. He said: numbers of users, because users are going to decide if Chrome is a great browser or not. So he had this one three-year-long objective: build the best browser. And then every year he stuck to the same key results, numbers of users, but he upped the ante. In the first year, his goal was 20 million users and he missed it. He got less than 10. Second year, he raised the bar to 50 million. He got to 37 million users. Somewhat better. In the third year, he upped the ante once more to a hundred million. He launched an aggressive marketing campaign, broader distribution, improved the technology, and kaboom! He got 111 million users.
在2008年，谷歌员工 桑达尔 · 皮查伊设定了一个目标， 他要为未来的网络应用 建立下一代客户平台。 换句话说，就是打造一个最好的浏览器。 在选择关键结果上，| 他有着非常深入的思考。 如何来衡量这是最好的浏览器？ 可以参考广告点击和用户参与度。 不，他认为是用户数量， 因为用户会决定 Chrome浏览器是好还是坏。 因此他定下了这个长达三年的目标： 打造最好的浏览器。 之后的每一年，他都会 专注于相同的关键成果， 即用户数量，但是要求不断提高。 在最初一年，他的目标是2000万用户， 但并没有达成。 用户数量还不到1000万。 第二年，他把目标提高到5000万。 结果用户数量达到 3700 万。 不管怎样，总算有些进步。 在第三年， 他再次将目标提高到1亿。 他启动了一个激进的营销活动， 采用更广泛的推广手段， 改善的技术，用户数量终于爆发了！ 他获得了1.11亿用户。
Here's why I like this story, not so much for the happy ending, but it shows someone carefully choosing the right objective and then sticking to it year after year after year. It's a perfect story for a nerd like me.
我之所以喜欢这个故事， 并不在于它有圆满的大结局， 而是它表现出一个人 仔细选择了正确的目标， 并年复一年始终坚持下来。 对我这样的书呆子来说， 这简直是个完美的故事。
Now, I think of OKRs as transparent vessels that are made from the whats and hows of our ambitions. What really matters is the why that we pour into those vessels. That's why we do our work. OKRs are not a silver bullet. They're not going to be a substitute for a strong culture or for stronger leadership, but when those fundamentals are in place, they can take you to the mountaintop.
我把OKRs看做是一个透明容器， 它由野心勃勃的“做什么” 和“怎么做”构成。 真正的关键在于 放进容器中的“为什么”， 那是我们工作的原因。 OKRs并非万能良药。 它无法代替强有力的文化 或是强有力的领导力。 但当这些基本元素都就位， 它们就可以带你走上巅峰。
I want you to think about your life for a moment. Do you have the right metrics? Take time to write down your values, your objectives and your key results. Do it today. If you'd like some feedback on them, you can send them to me. I'm john@whatmatters.com.
现在，我希望你们 思考一下自己的生活。 你是否拥有正确的衡量标准？ 花点时间写下你认为有价值的东西， 你的目标和关键成果。 今天就行动。 如果你想获得反馈，可以将它发给我。 我的邮箱地址是： john@whatmatters.com
If we think of the world-changing goals of an Intel, of a Nuna, of Bono, of Google, they're remarkable: ubiquitous computing, affordable health care, high-quality for everyone, ending global poverty, access to all the world's information. Here's the deal: every one of those goals is powered today by OKRs.
如果我们想想那些改变世界的目标， 英特尔，Nuna，博诺， 还有谷歌的目标， 它们都令人惊叹： 普适计算， 低价优质的全民医疗， 终结全球贫困， 获取全球信息。 事实情况是， 每个目标都得到了OKRs的助力。
Now, I've been called the Johnny Appleseed of OKRs for spreading the good gospel according to Andy Grove, but I want you to join me in this movement. Let's fight for what it is that really matters, because we can take OKRs beyond our businesses. We can take them to our families, to our schools, even to our governments. We can hold those governments accountable. We can transform those informations. We can get back on the right track if we can and do measure what really matters.
现在我被叫做OKRs播种机， 将安迪 · 葛洛夫的福音传播四方。 但是我希望你也能参与到这场运动中， 让我们为真正关键的事情而奋斗， 因为我们不仅可以 将OKRs运用到商业中， 还可以将其用于家庭， 学校， 甚至是政府。 我们可以让政府承担责任。 我们可以转化这些信息。 我们可以回到正确的轨道上—— 前提是，我们能够并且 真正去判断关键所在。
Thank you.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
（掌声）