Kashmir Hill: So for my birthday last year, my husband got me an Amazon Echo. I was kind of shocked, actually, because we both work in privacy and security.
﻿去年我过生日 我的丈夫送给我一个 Amazon Echo。 实际上我还有点惊讶 因为我俩都从事 隐私与安全方面的工作。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And this was a device that would sit in the middle of our home with a microphone on, constantly listening.
而这是一个安在 我家中的一个设备 开着麦克风 一直在倾听。
We're not alone, though. According to a survey by NPR and Edison Research, one in six American adults now has a smart speaker, which means that they have a virtual assistant at home. Like, that's wild. The future, or the future dystopia, is getting here fast. Beyond that, companies are offering us all kinds of internet-connected devices. There are smart lights, smart locks, smart toilets, smart toys, smart sex toys. Being smart means the device can connect to the internet, it can gather data, and it can talk to its owner.
并非只有我们这样。 根据NPR和Edison Research的调查 六分之一的成年美国人 都有一个智能音箱， 这意味着他们 在家里有一个虚拟助手。 这真是无法无天啊! 未来，或 者说是反乌托邦式的未来， 快来了。 除了这个，许多公司给人们 提供了各种能够联网的设备 智能灯，智能锁， 智能马桶，智能玩具 智能的性玩具。 智能意味着设备 可以连接到互联网， 能收集数据， 能与主人交流。
But once your appliances can talk to you, who else are they going to be talking to? I wanted to find out, so I went all-in and turned my one-bedroom apartment in San Francisco into a smart home. I even connected our bed to the internet. As far as I know, it was just measuring our sleeping habits. I can now tell you that the only thing worse than getting a terrible night's sleep is to have your smart bed tell you the next day that you "missed your goal and got a low sleep score."
但是一旦这些电器能跟你交流， 它们还将会和谁交流呢？ 我想查明此事， 于是我费了一番工夫， 把我在旧金山的一个一居室公寓 改造成了一个智能房子。 我甚至把我们的床都连到了互联网。 据我所知， 它仅仅只是判断我们的睡觉习惯 我可以告诉你们， 唯一一件 比没睡好觉还糟的事 就是第二天你的智能床跟你说 “你没达到睡眠目标， 并且得到了一个低睡眠分。”
(Laughter)
（笑声）
It's like, "Thanks, smart bed. As if I didn't already feel like shit today."
我真想说： “谢谢你，智能的床先生， 好像我今天过的还不够糟似的。“
(Laughter)
(笑声)
All together, I installed 18 internet-connected devices in my home. I also installed a Surya.
我总共在家里安装了 18个联网的设备。 我还“安装”了一位Surya。
Surya Mattu: Hi, I'm Surya.
嗨，我是Surya！
(Laughter)
（笑声）
I monitored everything the smart home did. I built a special router that let me look at all the network activity. You can think of my router sort of like a security guard, compulsively logging all the network packets as they entered and left the smart home.
我监视着智能屋做的一切事， 我搭建了一个特殊的路由器， 能让我查看所有的网络活动。 你可以把我的这个路由器 想成一位安保人员， 当网络数据包进出智能屋时 都被强制地记录下来。
KH: Surya and I are both journalists, he's not my husband, we just work together at Gizmodo.
Surya和我都是记者， 他不是我的丈夫 我们只是一起在Gizmodo工作罢了。
SM: Thank you for clarifying. The devices Kashmir bought -- we were interested in understanding what they were saying to their manufacturers. But we were also interested in understanding what the home's digital emissions look like to the internet service provider. We were seeing what the ISP could see, but more importantly, what they could sell.
谢谢你澄清此事。 我们对Kashmir买的设备 在和它们的制造者交流什么 非常感兴趣。 但我们同时也对 房子里发出的信息 在网络服务商眼里看起来是什么样子 很感兴趣。 我们在看ISP能看见什么， 但更重要的是， 它们能出卖什么。 我们的实验持续了两个月。
KH: We ran the experiment for two months. In that two months, there wasn't a single hour of digital silence in the house -- not even when we went away for a week.
在这两个月里 房间里没有一个小时的电子静默， 甚至在我们离家的那一周也是。 确实
SM: Yeah, it's so true. Based on the data, I knew when you guys woke up and went to bed. I even knew when Kashmir brushed her teeth. I'm not going to out your brushing habits, but let's just say it was very clear to me when you were working from home.
根据这些数据，我知道你们 什么时候睡觉，什么时候起床。 我甚至知道Kashmir什么时候刷牙， 我并不是要揭露你的刷牙习惯， 但是我得承认我很清楚的知道 你什么时候在家工作 呃，我想你说得够明白了。
KH: Uh, I think you just outed them to, like, a lot of people here.
别尴尬，这只是元数据罢了
SM: Don't be embarrassed, it's just metadata.
我知道你什么时候打开电视， 看多久。
I knew when you turned on your TV and how long you watched it for. Fun fact about the Hill household: they don't watch a lot of television, but when they do, it's usually in binge mode. Favorite shows include "Difficult People" and "Party Down."
Hill家有一个有趣的现象： 他们要么不看电视 要么就大看特看 他们最喜欢的节目有"难处之人“和 ”派对之后“。 没错，我爱死“派对之后”了，
KH: OK, you're right, I loved "Party Down." It's a great show, and you should definitely watch it. But "Difficult People" was all my husband, Trevor. And Trevor was actually a little upset that you knew about his binges, because even though he'd been the one to connect the TV to the router, he forgot that the TV was watching us.
是个不错的节目，你真应该看看。 “难处之人” 则是我丈夫Trevor看的。 Trevor在你知道他的喜好后 还有点心烦， 因为即使是他自己 将电视连上了路由器， 他忘了电视在看着他。 这也不是电视机头一回监视我们。
It's actually not the first time that our TV has spied on us. The company that made it, VIZIO, paid a 2.2 million-dollar settlement to the government just last year, because it had been collecting second-by-second information about what millions of people were watching on TV, including us, and then it was selling that information to data brokers and advertisers.
造电视的公司，VIZIO 去年付给政府 220万美元的和解费， 因为他们每一秒都在收集信息， 关于数百万看电视的人们的信息， 包括我们， 然后把这些信息卖给数据经纪人和 广告商。 啊，经典的监督经济之举。
SM: Ah, classic surveillance economy move. The devices Kashmir bought almost all pinged their servers daily. But do you know which device was especially chatty? The Amazon Echo. It contacted its servers every three minutes, regardless of whether you were using it or not.
Kashmir买的设备几乎每天 都要和他们的服务器联系一下, 但是你们知道那个设备话最多吗? Amazon Echo。 不管你用不用， 它每三分钟都与其服务器联系一次。 总的来说， 这些都令人不安，
KH: In general, it was disconcerting that all these devices were having ongoing conversations that were invisible to me. I mean, I would have had no idea, without your router. If you buy a smart device, you should probably know -- you're going to own the device, but in general, the company is going to own your data. And you know, I mean, maybe that's to be expected -- you buy an internet-connected device, it's going to use the internet. But it's strange to have these devices moving into the intimate space that is the home and allowing companies to track our really basic behavior there.
所有设备正在进行的对话 对我来说总是不可见的。 要不是你的路由器， 我真的一无所知。 你应该知道， 如果你买了一件智能设备， 你是设备的拥有者， 但一般来说， 智能设备公司会拥有你的数据。 或许这些都预料的到， 你买一件联网的设备， 它将要使用互联网。 但奇怪的是，现在这些设备 闯进私人空间，我们的家， 让这些公司追踪我们的基本行为。 确实如此。
SM: So true. Even the most banal-seeming data can be mined by the surveillance economy. For example, who cares how often you brush your teeth? Well, as it turns out, there's a dental insurance company called Beam. They've been monitoring their customers' smart toothbrushes since 2015 -- for discounts on their premiums, of course.
监视经济甚至可以挖掘出 最平庸的数据中蕴含的信息。 举个例子， 谁在乎你多久刷一次牙啊？ 然而结果是， 有一家叫Beam牙科保险公司， 他们从2015年 就开始监视顾客的智能牙刷， 当然了，顾客因此可以享受 保费的折扣。 我们知道你们中有人这么想：
KH: We know what some of you are thinking: this is the contract of the modern world. You give up a little privacy, and you get some convenience or some price breaks in return. But that wasn't my experience in my smart home. It wasn't convenient, it was infuriating. I'll admit, I love my smart vacuum, but many other things in the house drove me insane: we ran out of electrical outlets, and I had to download over a dozen apps to my phone to control everything. And then every device had its own log-in, my toothbrush had a password ...
这是现代世界的一个合同。 你放弃一些隐私， 然后可以得到一点方便 或者是折扣。 但在我的智能屋中， 我的经历截然不同。 一点也不方便， 很让我生气。 我承认，我喜欢我的智能吸尘器， 但是房子里其他东西 快把我弄得发疯了。 电源插座都被用完了， 我不得不在手机上下载十几个app 来控制这些东西。 然后每个设备都有自己的登陆方式， 我的牙刷还有个密码呢。 （笑声）
(Laughter)
尤其是智能咖啡机，真是糟糕透了。
And smart coffee, especially, was just a world of hell.
等等，真的吗？ 云计算咖啡机不适合你吗？
SM: Wait, really? Cloud-powered coffee wasn't really working for you?
我可能太天真， 我以为一切都会进展顺利。
KH: I mean, maybe I'm naive, but I thought it was going to be great. I thought we'd just wake up in the morning and we'd say, "Alexa, make us coffee." But that's not how it went down. We had to use this really particular, brand-specific phrase to make it work. It was, "Alexa, ask the Behmor to run quick start." And this was just, like, really hard to remember first thing in the morning, before you have had your caffeine.
我以为早上起床说：“Alexa， 给我们煮咖啡。”就可以了， 但事情并不是这样的。 我们必须得用具体的， 品牌规定好的短语， 我得说：“Alexa， 让 Behmor快速启动。” 在每天早上还未摄入咖啡因前， 这真是个非常难记住的 首要任务。 （笑声）
(Laughter)
显然，说这些话很困难
And apparently, it was hard to say, because the Echo Dot that was right next to our bed just couldn't understand us. So we would basically start every day by screaming this phrase at the Echo Dot.
因为就在我们床边摆着的Echo Dot 就是听不懂我们。 所以我们都是冲着Echo Dot 大喊来开始每一天。 （笑声）
(Laughter)
Trevor恨死这些了。
And Trevor hated this. He'd be like, "Please, Kashmir, just let me go to the kitchen and push the button to make the coffee run." And I'd be like, "No, you can't! We have to do it the smart way!"
他总说：“求你了Kashmir， 就让我去厨房按下那个键 让咖啡机运行起来。” 我就说：”不行，你不能这么做！ 我们得按照最智能的方式来。” （笑声）
(Laughter)
我很高兴我们的婚姻 撑过了这次试验，
I'm happy to report that our marriage survived the experiment, but just barely.
但真的很勉强。 如果你决定要把你家智能化，
SM: If you decide to make your home smart, hopefully, you’ll find it less infuriating than Kashmir did. But regardless, the smart things you buy can and probably are used to target and profile you. Just the number of devices you have can be used to predict how rich or poor you are. Facebook's made this tech, and they've also patented it.
希望你不要像Kashmir那样 被气死。 但无论如何，你买的智能设备 很有可能被用来定位和描述你。 仅仅通过你拥有的智能设备数量 就能推测出你是贫是富。 脸书制作了这项技术， 他们也获得了专利。 现阶段你每次上网感到的
KH: All the anxiety you currently feel every time you go online, about being tracked, is about to move into your living room. Or into your bedroom.
害怕被追踪的焦虑感 马上要进入你的客厅 或者你的卧室了。 有一种叫做We-Vibe的性玩具
There's this sex toy called the We-Vibe. You might wonder why a sex toy connects to the internet, but it's for two people who are in a long-distance relationship, so they can share their love from afar. Some hackers took a close look at this toy and saw it was sending a lot of information back to the company that made it -- when it was used, how long it was used for, what the vibration settings were, how hot the toy got. It was all going into a database. So I reached out to the company, and I said, "Why are you collecting this really sensitive data?" And they said, "Well, it's great for market research." But they were data-mining their customers' orgasms. And they weren't telling them about it. I mean, even if you're cavalier about privacy, I hope that you would admit that's a step too far.
你可能想知道一个性玩具 为什么还要联网， 这是给异地恋的情侣准备的， 这样他们就可以在远处 享受他们的爱。 有些黑客仔细研究了这个玩具， 发现这个玩具给它的公司 发送大量的信息。 什么时候使用这个玩具、用多长时间 震动设定是什么，玩具变得有多热， 这些都要录进数据库。 所以我联系了这家公司 我说：“你们为什么要收集 这么敏感的数据啊？” 他们说：“这是很好的市场调查。” 他们在挖掘 消费者性高潮的数据， 而且他们也不会告诉消费者这件事。 就算你对待隐私的态度很前卫， 我希望你要承认这有点过了。 这就是为什么我还没让 我的性玩具变智能。
SM: This is why I want to keep my sex toys dumb.
很好，
KH: That's great. We're all very glad to know that.
我们很高兴知道这件事。 （笑声）
(Laughter)
这是我愿意分享的数据点。
SM: A data point I'm willing to share.
（笑声）
(Laughter)
Kashmir买的设备 从有用的到让人心烦的都有。
The devices Kashmir bought range from useful to annoying. But the thing they all had in common was sharing data with the companies that made them. With email service providers and social media, we've long been told that if it's free, you're the product. But with the internet of things, it seems, even if you pay, you're still the product. So you really have to ask: Who's the true beneficiary of your smart home, you or the company mining you?
他们都有一个共同点 就是和制造它们的公司分享数据。 有了电子邮件供应商和 社交媒体的经验， 我们长久以来都知道， 如果商品免费，你就是产品。 但是对于互联网来说， 即使你付钱了，你还是产品。 所以你真的得想一想 谁是你的智能屋的受惠人？ 你，还是，挖掘你信息的公司？ 在座各位都是科技方面的明白人,
KH: Look, we're a tech savvy crowd here. I think most of us know that these things connect to the internet and send data out. And fine, maybe you're OK with living in that commercial panopticon, but others aren't. We need the companies to rethink the design of these devices with our privacy in mind, because we're not all willing to participate in "market research," just because a device we bought has a Wi-Fi connection. And I have to tell you, even when you're aware, generally, this is happening, it's really easy to forget that normal household items are spying on you. It's easy to forget these things are watching you, because they don't look like cameras. They could look like ... well, they could look like a dildo.
我们大多数人都知道 这些东西都连着网, 然后把数据发出去。 可能你觉得住在一座 商业全景敞视监狱监狱里没事， 但其他人未必这么想。 这些公司需要重新考虑 这些设备的设计， 要考虑到我们的隐私。 并非所有人都愿意 仅仅因为买了一个联网的设备 就参加一个市场调查。 我必须告诉你， 即使你知道这件事正在发生， 还是很容易忘记这些普通的居家物品 在监视窥伺着你。 你很容易就忘记这些东西在看着你， 因为它们长得并不像摄像头。 它们也可以长得像....... 嗯，它们可以长得像一个假阳具。 谢谢。
Thank you.
（掌声）