Five years ago, I stood on the TED stage, and I spoke about my work. But one year later, I had a terrible accident as I left a pub one dark night with friends, in Scotland. As we followed the path through a forest, I suddenly felt a massive thud, then a second thud, and I fell to the ground. I had no idea what had hit me.
﻿五年前，我还身强体健的站在 TED的舞台上，讲述我自己的工作， 但是一年后， 一个漆黑的夜晚，我和朋友们从酒吧 出来，经历了一场可怕的事故， 就在苏格兰。 当时我们沿着森林一条路走， 我突然听到了一声巨响， 接着又是第二声巨响， 随之，我就倒在了地上。 我不知道是什么撞到了我。
I later found out that when the gate was opened on a garden, a wild stag stampeded along the path and ran straight into me. Its antler penetrated my trachea and my esophagus and stopped at my spinal cord and fractured my neck. My best friend found me lying on the floor, gurgling for help through a hole in my neck. And we locked eyes, and although I couldn't speak, she could understand what I was thinking. And she told me, "Just breathe." And so, whilst focusing on my breath, I had a strong sense of calmness, but I was certain that I was going to die. Somehow, I was content with this, because I've always tried to do my best in life whenever I can. So I just continued to enjoy each breath as one more moment -- one breath in and one breath out. An ambulance came, I was still fully conscious, and I analyzed everything on the journey, because I'm a scientist: the sound of the tires on the road, the frequency of the street lights and eventually, the city street lights. And I thought, "Maybe I will survive." And then I passed out.
后来我发现， 原来是公园大门敞开的时候， 一头受惊了的野鹿在路上狂奔， 径直朝我冲了过来。 它的鹿角刺穿了我的气管和食道， 卡在了我的脊髓里，折断了我的脖子。 我的好朋友发现我躺在地上， 脖子穿了个洞， 汩汩的冒着鲜血在求救。 我们相视一眼，她便心领神会， 即便我无法开口说话。 然后她告诉我，“呼吸就好了”。 在我集中注意力呼吸的时候， 我冷静的不可思议， 但是我很肯定，我很快就要死了。 某种程度上， 我对当时的反应还是很满意的。 因为我总是想在任何情况下 都努力做到最好。 所以我继续的享受每一次呼吸， 再来一次—— 吸气，又呼气。 救护车来了，我依然完全神智清醒， 在去医院的路上，我研究着周围的一切， 因为我是个科学家： 轮胎压过路面的声响， 每隔多久出现一次街灯， 最终，我看到了城市的街灯， 然后我想，“也许我还能活下去。” 之后，我便失去意识了。
I was stabilized at a local hospital and then airlifted to Glasgow, where they reconstructed my throat and put me in a coma. And while I was in the coma, I had many alternate realities. It was like a crazy mix of "Westworld" and "Black Mirror." But that's a whole other story. My local TV station reported live from outside the hospital of a Cambridge scientist who was in a coma, and they didn't know if she would live or die or walk or talk. And a week later, I woke up from that coma. And that was the first gift. Then I had the gift to think, the gift to move, the gift to breathe and the gift to eat and to drink. That took three and a half months.
我的情况在当地医院有所稳定后， 便被空运到了格拉斯哥，  在那里医务人员重建了我的喉咙， 我再一次陷入了昏迷。 在我昏迷的时候，我仿佛进入了 许多不一样的现实世界， 就好像是“西部世界”和“黑镜”的疯狂组合。 但是那完全是另一个故事了。 我当地的电视台在医院外 进行了现场直播， 报道了一名来自剑桥的科学家， 陷入了昏迷， 至今生死未卜， 醒后也不知道她能否行动说话。 一个星期后，我从昏迷中苏醒， 那是上天对我的第一份眷顾， 然后上天又给予了我能够思考， 能够移动的恩赐， 能够呼吸的恩赐， 能够吃，能够喝的恩赐。 恢复这一切耗时三个半月时间。
But there was one thing that I never got back, though, and that was my privacy. The tabloid press made the story about gender. Look -- I'm transgender, it's not that big a deal. Like, my hair color or my shoe size is way more interesting. When I last spoke here --
但是有一件事，是我无法重拾的， 那就是我的隐私。 那些小报社对我的性别大做文章。 是这样的，我是一名跨性别者， 这件事没有什么好说的， 因为像我头发的颜色，或我鞋子的尺码， 都比这件事要有趣得多。 我上次在这儿演讲的时候 ——
(Applause)
（掌声）
When I last spoke here --
我上次在这儿演讲的时候 ——
(Applause)
（掌声）
at TED, I didn't talk about it, because it's boring. And one Scottish newspaper ran with the headline: "Sex Swap Scientist Gored by Stag." And five others did similar things. And for a minute, I was angry. But then I found my calm place. And what ran through my head was, "They've crossed the wrong woman, and they're not going to know what's hit them."
在TED上，我没有谈及我的性别， 因为我觉得这很无聊。 但苏格兰的一份报纸标题直接是： 《变性科学家被牡鹿刺伤》 还有另外五家报社也做了类似的事情。 有那么一刻，我真的很生气。 但之后，我又静下心来， 我脑子里想的是，“他们真是惹错人了， 我要给他们点颜色瞧瞧才行。”
(Laughter)
（笑声）
I'm a kindness ninja. I don't really know what a ninja does, but to me, they slip through the shadows, crawl through the sewers, skip across the rooftops, and before you know it, they're behind you. They don't turn up with an army or complain, and they're laser-focused on a plan. So when I lay in my hospital bed, I thought of my plan to help reduce the chances of them doing this to somebody else, by using the system as is, and paying the price of sacrificing my privacy. What they told one million people, I will tell 10 million people.
我是一个善良的忍者。 虽然我不知道忍者是做什么的， 但于我而言，他们从影子里溜走， 沿着下水道爬行， 飞檐走壁， 在你察觉之前， 他们就已经在你的身后了。 他们孤军奋战，从不抱怨， 一旦有了计划就会一头扎进去。 所以，当我躺在医院病床上的时候， 我就想出了一个计划， 以减少类似事件的发生， 让这些报社不再这样伤害别人。 我的计划就是反其道而行之， 以我的隐私为代价。 如果他们告诉一百万个人， 那么我就告诉一千万个人。
Because when you're angry, people defend themselves. So I didn't attack them, and they were defenseless. I wrote kind and calm letters to these newspapers. And The Sun newspaper, the kind of "Fox News" of the UK, thanked me for my "reasoned approach." I asked for no apology, no retraction, no money, just an acknowledgment that they broke their own rules, and what they did was just wrong. And on this journey, I started to learn who they are, and they began to learn who I am. And we actually became friends. I've even had a few glasses of wine with Philippa from The Sun since then. And after three months, they all agreed, and the statements were published on a Friday, and that was the end of that. Or so they thought.
因为一般当你生气的时候， 得罪你的人会做好防御措施， 所以如果我不直接攻击他们， 他们就会毫无防备。 我给这些报纸写了几封 亲切而又冷静的信。 之后太阳报， 这个类似英国版的“福克斯新闻”， 对我“理性的做法”表示了感谢。 我不求道歉，也不需要他们撤回报道， 更不要求赔偿， 我只是让他们承认，他们这么做确实越界了， 而这样做是不对的。 在解决这件事的过程中， 我也开始了解到他们是什么样的群体， 而他们也开始了解我是一个什么样的人， 事实上我们还成为了朋友。 自那以后，我还和太阳报的工作人员 菲利帕喝过几杯红酒。 三个月以后，他们所有人都同意， 周五时发表一份承认错误的声明， 之后这事就翻篇了， 他们大概也是这样想的。
On the Saturday, I went on the evening news, with the headline "Six National Newspapers Admit They Were Wrong." And the anchor said to me, "But don't you think it's our job as journalists to sensationalize a story?" And I said, "I was laying on a forest floor, gored by a stag. Is that not sensational enough?"
在周六的时候，我上了晚间新闻， 标题是“全国六家报社承认错了”。 主持人问我说， “但是你不认为我们记者的本职工作， 就是通过炒作来哗众取宠吗？” 然后我说：“我当时被鹿角扎了， 还痛苦的倒在森林里， 难道这还不够渲染博取眼球吗？”
(Laughter)
（笑声）
And I was now writing the headlines. My favorite one was, "The stag trampled on my throat, and the press trampled on my privacy." It was the most read piece of BBC News online that day. And I was kind of having fun.
我当时就在那拟订了几个新闻标题。 我最喜欢的一个是， "牡鹿踩踏了我的喉咙， 而媒体践踏了我的隐私。” 而那篇文章也收获了当天 BBC在线新闻的最高阅读量。 我觉得还挺有意思的。
And by the end of my week of media, I started to use my newfound voice and platform to spread a message of love and kindness. And when I had the minute of anger and hatred towards those press and journalists, I had to identify my inner bigotry towards them. And I had to meet and speak with these people without judgment. I had to let myself understand them, and in return, they began to understand me.
在结束了为期一周的新闻采访后， 我开始使用我这失而复得的声音， 和新构建的媒体平台， 去传递爱心与善良的信息。 在我对那些媒体和记者， 感到愤怒和憎恨的时候， 我必须得明确我内心对他们的偏见， 在和这些人见上一面聊一聊的时候， 我必须得做到公正不倚。 我必须得让自己理解他们， 这样反过来，他们才会开始理解我。
Well, six months later, they asked me to join the committee that regulates the press. And a few times a year, I sip tea and dip biscuits with the likes of Daily Mail editor Paul Dacre, who says to me, "So, Kate, how have your last few months been?" And I respect them. And I'm now one of three members of the public who has a seat at the table -- not because I'm different, but because my voice counts, just like anybody else.
六个月之后，他们邀请我加入报社委员会， 来监管媒体。 一年几次，我喝着茶，蘸着饼干， 和像每日邮报的编辑 保罗·达克雷这样的人物聊天， 他问我说： “凯特，过去的几个月你过得还好吗？” 而我也尊重他们。 现在我是在（媒体界）有一席之地的 三名大众成员里的其中一员， 并非因我与众不同， 而是因为我的声音也同样受到重视， 就像其他人一样。
And the irony is, every now and again, I'm asked to visit those printing presses of this declining industry, because some people think that the technology I spoke about here, last time at TED, my interactive print, might actually help save them.
但讽刺的是， 隔三岔五，我就会被邀请去参观 一些印刷机，  它们属于这个正在衰落的产业。 因为，有些人认为， 上次我站在这儿，TED这个舞台上， 讲述的交互式打印技术， 可能拯救了这个行业。
So beware of your inner bigot, and make friends from your enemies.
所以，警惕大家内心的偏见， 然后跟你们的敌人交朋友。
Thank you.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
（掌声）