If you do it right, it should sound like: TICK-tat, TICK-tat, TICK-tat, TICK-tat, TICK-tat, TICK-tat. If you do it wrong, it sounds like: Tick-TAT, tick-TAT, tick-TAT.
﻿如果你做得正确， 声音听起来应该是： 滴答，滴答，滴答， 滴答，滴答，滴答， 如果你做得不正确，它听起来像： 滴哒，滴哒，滴哒。
[Small thing. Big idea.]
【小事情，大想法。】
[Kyra Gaunt on the Jump Rope]
【Kyra Gaunt与跳绳】
The jump rope is such a simple object. It can be made out of rope, a clothesline, twine. It has, like, a twirl on it. (Laughs) I'm not sure how to describe that. What's important is that it has a certain weight, and that they have that kind of whip sound.
跳绳是一个非常简单的东西， 它可以由绳子、晒衣线 或者麻线制成。 跳绳上还有螺纹一样的结构。（笑） 我不确定该怎么去形容它。 重要的是它自身有一定重量， 并且有那种挥鞭子的声音。
It's not clear what the origin of the jump rope is. There's some evidence that it began in ancient Egypt, Phoenicia, and then it most likely traveled to North America with Dutch settlers. The rope became a big thing when women's clothes became more fitted and the pantaloon came into being. And so, girls were able to jump rope because their skirts wouldn't catch the ropes. Governesses used it to train their wards to jump rope. Even formerly enslaved African children in the antebellum South jumped rope, too.
我们不清楚跳绳是如何起源的。 有一些证据表明它最初 出现在古埃及、腓尼基， 后来很有可能是被 荷兰移民带到了北美洲。 随着女性的衣服变得 更合身和马裤的兴起后， 跳绳变得流行起来。 就这样，女孩们可以跳绳了， 因为她们的裙子不会再绊到绳子了。 家庭教师用它来训练孩子们跳绳。 甚至在南北战争前的南方， 那些被奴役的非洲孩子们， 也在跳绳。
In the 1950s, in Harlem, Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens, you could see on the sidewalk, lots of girls playing with ropes. Sometimes they would take two ropes and turn them as a single rope together, but you could separate them and turn them in like an eggbeater on each other. The skipping rope was like a steady timeline -- tick, tick, tick, tick -- upon which you can add rhymes and rhythms and chants. Those ropes created a space where we were able to contribute to something that was far greater than the neighborhood.
二十世纪五十年代，在哈莱姆、 布朗克斯、布鲁克林、皇后区， 你都能在路边看到许多女孩在跳绳。 有时她们拿着两根绳子， 并把它们绕成一根， 但也可以将它们 像打蛋器一样交叉使用。 跳绳时，这绳子就像是 一个稳定的时间轴—— 哒，哒，哒，哒—— 你可以在上面加上韵律、 节奏和小段吟唱。 那些绳子为我们创造了一个空间， 在这个空间里，我们可以去 创造更伟大的事物， 一种超越邻里街坊的事物。
Double Dutch jump rope remains a powerful symbol of culture and identity for black women. Back from the 1950s to the 1970s, girls weren't supposed to play sports. Boys played baseball, basketball and football, and girls weren't allowed. A lot has changed, but in that era, girls would rule the playground. They'd make sure that boys weren't a part of that. It's their space, it's a girl-power space. It's where they get to shine.
相绕绳单人跳为黑人女性 保留了一个强有力的文化和 身份的标志。 追溯回二十世纪 五十年代到七十年代， 女孩们是不能去参加体育运动的。 男孩们玩着棒球，篮球，橄榄球， 女孩们却被禁止参与。 现状已经大不相同， 但是在那个年代， 女孩们可是操场之王。
But I also think it's for boys, because boys overheard those, which is why, I think, so many hip-hop artists sampled from things that they heard in black girls' game songs.
她们还不让男孩子们参与进来。 因为这是属于她们自己的空间， 一个“女孩能量”空间。 这是她们闪光的地方。
(Chanting) ... cold, thick shake, act like you know how to flip, Filet-O-Fish, Quarter Pounder, french fries, ice cold, thick shake, act like you know how to jump.
但我认为跳绳也是属于男孩们的， 因为男孩们会无意中 听到那些歌词， 这就是为什么，我认为有 很多的嘻哈艺术家 会从他们听到的黑人女孩们的 游戏歌中借鉴一番。
Why "Country Grammar" by Nelly became a Grammy Award-winning single was because people already knew "We're going down down baby your street in a Range Rover ... " That's the beginning of "Down down, baby, down down the roller coaster, sweet, sweet baby, I'll never let you go." All people who grew up in any black urban community would know that music. And so, it was a ready-made hit.
（歌词）“...冰凉，醇厚的奶昔，  秀出你的翻转能力吧， 麦香鱼, 至尊牛肉堡, 炸薯条，冰凉，醇厚的奶昔， 秀出你的跳跃能力吧。”
The Double Dutch rope playing helped maintain these songs and helped maintain the chants and the gestures that go along with it, which is very natural to what I call "kinetic orality" -- word of mouth and word of body. It's the thing that gets passed down over generations. In some ways, the rope is the thing that helps carry it. You need some object to carry memory through.
为什么Nelly的“Country Grammar” 可以获得格莱美奖， 是因为人们早已知道 “我们坐在路虎车里 沿着你的街道往下走 ...” 这句歌词是借鉴了“下来，下来， 宝贝，从过山车上下来, 甜心宝贝儿，我永远不会让你离开。” 所有在市镇的黑人社区里长大的人 都会知道那首歌。 这首歌本来就很火。 通过相绕绳单人跳这项运动， 这些歌以及吟唱、手势 得到了很好的保留， 这其实是很自然的一件事， 我称之为“运动的口头形态”—— 嘴部语言和身体语言。 这是由一代代人传承下来的， 而跳绳则起到了至关重要的作用。 需要一些物件来承载回忆。
So, a jump rope, you can use it for all different kinds of things. It crosses cultures. And I think it lasted because people need to move. And I think sometimes the simplest objects can make the most creative uses.
而跳绳就是这么一样物件， 你可以借它来传递很多不同的文化。 它跨越了文化。 我认为它能保留下来的原因 是人们依旧需要向前， 而最简单的事物往往能 发挥最富有创意的用途。