So, I love making tools and sharing them with people. I remember as a child, my first tool I built was actually a microscope that I built by stealing lenses from my brother's eyeglasses. He wasn't that thrilled. But, you know, maybe because of that moment, 30 years later, I'm still making microscopes. And the reason I built these tools is for moments like this.
﻿我喜欢制作工具并与别人分享。 我记得小时候， 我制作的第一个工具 是一个显微镜， 它的镜片是从我哥哥的 眼镜上偷偷掰下来的。 他（知道后）并没有 为我的发明感到激动。 但也许正是因为那一刻， 30年后， 我依然在制作显微镜。 制作这些工具的原因 是为了像这样的时刻。
(Video) Girl: I have black things in my hair —
（视频）女孩：有个 黑色的东西在我的头发里。
Manu Prakash: This is a school in the Bay Area.
马努 · 普拉卡什：这是 一所在旧金山湾区的学校。
(Video) MP: The living world far supersedes our imagination of how things actually work.
（视频）马努：我们如今 生活的世界远远超越了 我们对事物运作的猜想。
(Video) Boy: Oh my God!
（视频）男孩：哦，我的天！
MP: Right — oh my God! I hadn't realized this would be such a universal phrase.
马努：没错——我的天啊！ 我没有意识到这是 如此通用的一个短语。
Over the last two years, in my lab, we built 50,000 Foldscopes and shipped them to 130 countries in the world, at no cost to the kids we sent them to. This year alone, with the support of our community, we are planning to ship a million microscopes to kids around the world. What does that do? It creates an inspiring community of people around the world, learning and teaching each other, from Kenya to Kampala to Kathmandu to Kansas.
在过去的两年， 在我的实验室里， 我们制作了5万个折叠镜， 并将其运往世界上的130个国家， 免费发放给孩子们。 仅这一年， 在我们社区的支持下， 我们计划发放一百万个折叠镜 送给世界各地的孩子们。 这有什么用途呢？ 它为世界各地的人们创造了一个 鼓舞人心的的社区， 大家共同学习和相互传授， 从肯尼亚到坎帕拉， 从加德满都到堪萨斯州。
And one of the phenomenal things that I love about this is the sense of community. There's a kid in Nicaragua teaching others how to identify mosquito species that carry dengue by looking at the larva under a microscope. There's a pharmacologist who came up with a new way to detect fake drugs anywhere. There is a girl who wondered: "How does glitter actually work?" and discovered the physics of crystalline formation in glitter. There is an Argentinian doctor who's trying to do field cervical cancer screening with this tool. And yours very truly found a species of flea that was dug inside my heel in my foot one centimeter deep.
而我喜欢的现象之一， 就是社区感。 尼加拉瓜有个孩子 教其他人如何通过观察 显微镜下的幼虫 来识别携带登革热的蚊子。 有一位药理学家 提出了一种新的方法， 能在任何地方检测假药。 有一位女孩想知道： ”闪粉是如何产生效果的？” 并在闪粉中发现了 晶体形成的物理现象。 有一位阿根廷医生 用这个工具来做宫颈癌的筛检。 接着我们又发现了一种跳蚤， 就在我的脚后跟内一厘米深的地方。
Now, you might think of these as anomalies. But there is a method to this madness. I call this "frugal science" — the idea of sharing the experience of science, and not just the information. To remind you: there are a billion people on this planet who live with absolutely no infrastructure: no roads, no electricity and thus, no health care. Also, there a billion kids on this planet that live in poverty. How are we supposed to inspire them for the next generation of solution makers? There are health care workers that we put on the line to fight infectious diseases, to protect us with absolutely bare-minimum tools and resources.
现在，你可能会认为这都是 一些例外的情况。 但是的确有实现这些 奇思妙想的办法。 我称之为“节俭科学”—— 这是种分享科学经验的想法， 而不仅仅是得到的信息。 别忘了： 这个星球上有数十亿人口 生活在没有基础设施的环境里： 没有道路， 没有电力， 因此，也没有医疗服务。 另外，这个星球上有 10亿儿童生活在贫困中。 那我们应该如何激励他们 成为下一代的问题解决者？ 现在我们的医护人员还处于 对抗传染病的危险环境中， 他们用最最基本的工具与 资源保护着我们。
So as a lab at Stanford, I think of this from a context of frugal science and building solutions for these communities. Often we think about being able to do diagnosis under a tree, off-grid. I'll tell you two examples today of new tools. One of them starts in Uganda. In 2013, on a field trip to detect schistosomiasis with Foldscopes, I made a minor observation. In a clinic, in a far, remote area, I saw a centrifuge being used as a doorstop. I mean — quite literally, the doorstop. And I asked them and they said, "Oh, we don't actually have electricity, so this piece of junk is good as a doorstop." Centrifuges, for some of you who don't know, are the pinnacle tool to be able to do sample processing. You separate components of blood or body fluids to be able to detect and identify pathogens. But centrifuges are bulky, expensive — cost around 1,000 dollars — and really hard to carry out in the field. And of course, they don't work without power. Sound familiar? So we started thinking about solving this problem, and I came back — kept thinking about toys.
在斯坦福大学的实验室中， 我尝尝思考如何从“节约科学” 以及为社区提供方案的 角度来解决这个问题。 我们常常设想能够 在没有网络的树下做诊断。 今天我要给你们介绍 两个新工具的例子。 其中一个是在乌干达试用的。 2013年， 在用折叠镜检测 血吸虫病的实地考察中， 我做了一个小小的观察。 在一家处于 偏远地区的诊所里， 我看到一台离心机 被当作门挡来使用。 我指的就是字面意义上的“门挡”。 我问他们怎么回事，他们回答说， "哦，我们这儿根本没有电， 所以这玩意儿没啥用， 当门挡正合适。” 如果你们有谁不知道的话，离心机， 是一种能够进行 样品处理的顶尖工具。 你可以用它来分离 血液或体液内的成分， 以此检测和识别病原体。 但是离心机体积庞大，价格昂贵—— 价格大约1000美元—— 并且很难搬运。 当然， 它们没有电力就不能工作。 很耳熟吧？ 于是我们开始思考 如何解决这个问题， 我回来后—— 就一直想着玩具。
Now ... I have a few with me here. I first started with yo-yos ... and I'm a terrible yo-yo thrower. Because these objects spin, we wondered, could we actually use the physics of these objects to be able to build centrifuges? This was possibly the worst throw I could make. But you might start realizing, if you start exploring the safe space of toys — we tried these spinning tops, and then in the lab, we stumbled upon this wonder.
那么今天... 我带了几个在身上。 我先从溜溜球开始... 不过我是一个糟糕的扔球者。 看着这些东西在旋转， 我们就会想， 是否可以把它们旋转的物理原理 拿来建造离心机呢？ 这可能是我做出的最糟糕的一投。 但是你可能会意识到， 如果你开始探索 各种可能合适的玩具—— 我们尝试了这些陀螺， 然后在实验室里， 我们偶然发现了这个神奇的东西。
It's the whirligig, or a buzzer, or a rundle. A couple of strings and a little disk, and if I push, it spins. How many of you have played with this as a kid? This is called a button-on-a-string. OK, maybe 50 percent of you. What you didn't realize — that this little object is the oldest toy in the history of mankind ... 5,000 years ago. We have found relics of this object hidden around on our planet. Now the irony is, we actually don't understand how this little thing works. That's when I get excited.
它是个陀螺，或者可以称之为蜂鸣器， 或者类似绞盘器的东西。 它由一些绳子和一个小盘构成。 如果我拉一下绳子，它就会旋转。 你们中有多少人在小时候玩过这个？ 这就是所谓的“纽扣绳"。 好吧，大概有一半的人。 然而你并没有意识到—— 这个小玩意儿 起源于5000年前， 是人类历史上最古老的玩具。 我们已经在地球上 发现了这些玩具的遗迹。 具有讽刺意味的是， 我们实际上并不知道 这个小东西的工作原理。 这让我感到好奇和兴奋。
So we got back to work, wrote down a couple of equations. If you take the input torque that you put in, you take the drag on this disc, and the twist drag on these strings, you should be able to mathematically solve this. This is not the only equation in my talk. Ten pages of math later, we could actually write down the complete analytical solution for this dynamic system. And out comes what we call "Paperfuge." That's my postdoc Saad Bhamla, who's the co-inventor of Paperfuge. And to the left, you see all the centrifuges that we're trying to replace.
当我们回去工作时， 写下了几个方程式。 如果你把之前的输入转矩，（译者注： 机械元件在转矩作用下会发生扭转变形） 拖动到这个圆盘上， 然后扭动这些绳子， 你应该能用数学来解决这个问题。 这不是我演讲中唯一的方程式。 我们后来又写了十页的公式， 可以用这些方程式， 为这个动态系统 写出完整的解析方案。 我们把它叫做“纸质离心机”。 这是我们组的博士后，萨阿德 · 巴姆拉， 也是纸质离心机的共同发明人。 在左边，你可以看到 所有我们正试图用 新工具取代的离心机们。
This little object that you see right here is a disc, a couple of strings and a handle. And when I spin and I push, it starts to spin. Now, when you realize, when you do the math, when we calculate the rpm for this object, mathematically, we should be able to go all the way to a million rpm. Now, there is a little twist in human anatomy, because the resonant frequency of this object is about 10 hertz, and if you've ever played the piano, you can't go higher than two or three hertz. The maximum speed we've been able to achieve with this object is not 10,000 rpm, not 50,000 rpm — 120,000 rpm. That's equal to 30,000 g-forces. If I was to stick you right here and have it spin, you would think about the types of forces you would experience.
你看到的这个小东西 是由一个圆盘，几根绳子 和一对把手构成的。 每当我旋转它， 往两旁边拉绳子， 它就开始旋转了起来。 现在，当我们用数学公式 来计算 这个物体的转速时， 理论上它应该能够 达到每分钟100万转。 这和人体解剖学稍有分歧， 因为这个东西的 共振频率大约是10赫兹， 如果你曾经弹过钢琴， 你和钢琴的共振频率 最高不会超过2或3赫兹。 这个东西旋转能达到的最大速度 不是每分钟1万转， 也不是5万转—— 而是12万转。 相当于3万倍的重力加速度g。 如果我把你绑在这里，让它旋转， 你会想到可能经历的 各种类型的力。
One of the factors of a tool like this is to be able to do diagnosis with this. So, I'm going to do a quick demo here, where — this is a moment where I'm going to make a little finger prick, and a tiny drop of blood is going to come out. If you don't like blood, you don't have to look at it. Here is a little lancet. These lancets are available everywhere, completely passive. And if I've had breakfast today ... That didn't hurt at all. OK, I take a little capillary with a drop of blood — now this drop of blood has answers, that's why I'm interested in it. It might actually tell me whether I have malaria right now or not. I take a little capillary, and you see it starts wicking in. I'm going to draw a little more blood. And that's good enough for right now. Now, I just seal this capillary by putting it in clay. And now that's sealed the sample.
像这样的工具有一个要素 就是可以用接下来的事做个诊断。 我将在这里做一个简短的演示—— 现在我要轻轻刺一下我的手指， 然后就会流出一滴血。 如果你不喜欢血，你可以不看它。 这是一把小刀。 这种小刀 在哪都很常见。 我今天应该是吃了早餐的... 所以并不会造成什么伤害。 好的，我用采血管采了一滴血—— 现在这滴血背后 隐藏着一个事情的答案， 也就是我对它感兴趣的原因， 它可能会告诉我， 我现在是否患有疟疾。 我拿出一个真空毛细管， 接着你能看到它开始采血了。 我还要多挤一点血出来。 好了，足够了。 现在，我把这个采血管密封在粘土中。 现在这个样本已经被密封了。
We're going to take the sample, mount it on Paperfuge. A little piece of tape to make a sealed cavity. So now the sample is completely enclosed. And we are ready for a spin. I'm pushing and pulling with this object. I'm going to load this up ... And you see the object starts spinning. Unlike a regular centrifuge, this is a counter-rotating centrifuge. It goes back and forth, back and forth ... And now I'm charging it up, and you see it builds momentum. And now — I don't know if you can hear this — 30 seconds of this, and I should be able to separate all the blood cells with the plasma. And the ratio of those blood cells to plasma —
我们要把这个样本 放入纸质离心机里。 用一小块胶带做一个密封的腔。 现在样本已经完全封闭了。 然后我们就准备好开始旋转了。 我要对它进行推拉的操作， 给它加点速度... 然后你可以看到盘子开始旋转。 跟普通离心机不同， 这是一个反向旋转的离心机。 它来来回回，反反复复... 现在我要给它更多的动力， 接着你就看到它积累了动量。 现在——我不知道你们是否能听到—— 旋转30秒后， 我应该能够把所有的 血细胞和血浆分离， 并且得知这些血细胞和血浆的比率——
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
Already, if you see right here, if you focus on this, you should be able to see a separated volume of blood and plasma. And the ratio of that actually tells me whether I might be anemic.
现在，请集中注意力， 把目光聚焦在这里， 你应该能看到互相分离的 血液与血浆。 这个比率会告诉我， 我是否可能有贫血症状。
One the of aspects of this is, we build many types of Paperfuges. This one allows us to identify malaria parasites by running them for a little longer, and we can identify malaria parasites that are in the blood that we can separate out and detect with something like a centrifuge. Another version of this allows me to separate nucleic acids to be able to do nucleic acid tests out in the field itself. Here is another version that allows me to separate bulk samples, and then, finally, something new that we've been working on to be able to implement the entire multiplex test on an object like this. So where you do the sample preparation and the chemistry in the same object.
我们做了很多类型的纸质离心机。 这一种可以帮助我们识别疟原虫， 通过让它们运行更长时间， 我们可以识别血液中存在的疟原虫。 这也正是普通离心机 分离和检测的结果。 另一种类型的纸质离心机， 可以帮我分离核酸， 从而能够在现场直接进行核酸测试。 还有一种类型， 它可以帮助我分离大量的样本， 那么最后， 我们最近一直在研究的， 这么一个装置可以 实现整套的多元测试。 也就是说你可以在同一个 装置上准备样品和观察化学反应。
Now ... this is all good, but when you start thinking about this, you have to share these tools with people. And one of the things we did is — we just got back from Madagascar; this is what clinical trials for malaria look like —
现在... 这些看起来都不错， 但是当你开始思考这个问题的时候， 你必须与别人分享这些工具。 我们做过的一件事是—— 我们刚从马达加斯加回来， 这就是那里的 疟疾临床试验的样子——
(Laughter)
（笑声）
You can do this while having coffee. But most importantly, this is a village six hours from any road. We are in a room with one of the senior members of the community and a health care worker. It really is this portion of the work that excites me the most — that smile, to be able to share simple but powerful tools with people around the world. Now, I forgot to tell you this, that all of that cost me 20 cents to make.
你可以一边喝咖啡一边工作。 但最重要的是， 这是一个不论从哪条路过去 都要走六个小时的村庄。 我们和社区里的一些年长者， 还有一名医疗保健工作者 待在同一间屋子里。 这份工作最让我兴奋的地方—— 就是那些使用者的笑容， 同时，我们能够与世界各地的 人们分享构造简单，但功能强大的工具。 对了，忘记告诉你们了， 这么一个工具的制作成本 只需要20美分。
OK, in the negative time I have left, I'll tell you about the most recent —
好的，时间差不多了， 我来告诉你们我们实验室里——
(Laughter)
（笑声）
invention from our lab. It's called Abuzz — the idea that all of you could help us fight mosquitoes; you could all help us track our enemies. These are enemies because they cause malaria, Zika, chikungunya, dengue. But the challenge is that we actually don't know where our enemies are. The world map for where mosquitoes are is missing. So we started thinking about this. There are 3,500 species of mosquitoes, and they're all very similar. Some of them are so identical that even an entomologist cannot identify them under a microscope.
最新的发明。 它叫做嗡鸣（Abuzz）— 是一种大家都可以帮助 我们对抗蚊子的想法； 你们都可以帮助我们追踪敌人。 这些蚊子是敌人，因为它们会传播 疟疾、寨卡病毒、基孔肯雅病、登革热。 而我们所面临的挑战是， 我们根本找不到这些敌人在哪里。 世界地图上可没有标记蚊子的地方。 所以我们开始思考这个问题。 目前一共有3500种蚊子， 并且它们都非常相似。 有些种类的相似程度， 昆虫学家借助 显微镜也无法识别它们。
But they have an Achilles' heel. This is what mosquitoes flirting with each other looks like. That's a male chasing a female. They're actually talking to each other with their wingbeat frequencies. (Buzzing sound) And thus, they have a signature. We realized that using a regular phone, a $5-10 flip phone — how many remember what this object is?
但是他们有一个致命的弱点。 这是蚊子互相调情的样子。 那是一只雄性在追逐雌性。 它们实际上是用它们的 翼拍频率在相互交谈。 (嗡嗡的声音) 因此，他们有一个特征信号。 我们借助一个普通的手机 发现了这一点， 一个价值5-10美元的翻盖手机—— 有多少人还记得这东西是什么吗？
(Laughter)
（笑声）
We can record these acoustic signatures from mosquitoes. I'll tell you exactly how to do this.
我们可以从蚊子的信号中 记录这些声音特征。 我来告诉你是怎么做到的。
I caught some mosquitoes outside. Unlike Bill [Gates], I'm not going to release them.
我在外面发现了一些蚊子。 不像比尔（盖茨），我不会放了它们。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
But I will tell you how to record from this. All you do is tap them and they fly. You can first test — I can actually hear that. And you bring your phone, which has microphones — it turns out the mics are so damn good already, even on regular phones, that you can pick up this near-field signature. And since I'm out of time, let me just play the recording that I made a day ago.
但我会告诉你如何对它们做记录。 你只需要轻敲它们， 它们就会飞起来。 你可以先测试一下—— 我确实能听到它们的嗡嗡声。 然后你用手机上的麦克风—— 事实上，即使是普通的手机， 它的麦克风也已经很好了， 你可以收到这个近场的信号。 考虑到我的演讲时间快到了， 我就播放一段昨天录制的录音吧。
(Mosquitoes buzz)
(蚊子的嗡嗡声)
This is all the charming sound that you heard before that you all love. One of the contexts of this is that being able to do this with a regular cell phone allows us to map mosquito species. Using a flip phone, we mapped one of the largest acoustic databases with 25 to 20 species of mosquitoes that carry human pathogens. And from this and machine learning, anybody who uploads this data, we can identify and tell the probability of what species of mosquitoes you're actually working with. We call this Abuzz, and if any of you want to sign up, just go to the website.
这就是你们之前听到的迷人的， 让人欲罢不能的声音。 介绍一点背景知识， 我们可以用普通的手机来 帮助绘制蚊子种类的地图。 我们也能用一个翻盖手机 来绘制世界上最大的 声学数据库之一， 这些声音来自于20-25种携带 人类病原体的蚊子。 利用这些数据，加上机器学习， 任何人上传了声音数据， 我们就能识别并大致判断 你所提供的蚊子种类。 我们称这是嗡鸣(Abuzz)， 如果你们想要报名参与的话， 只要去这个网站就可以了。
Let me close with something that's very important and dear to my heart. One of the challenges of today is we have terrible problems. We have a billion people with absolutely no health care, climate change, biodiversity loss, on and on and on. And we hope that science is going to provide the answer.
现在让我用我心目中很重要， 很珍爱的东西来结束这场演讲。 当今我们所面临的挑战之一， 就是我们遭遇着一些可怕的状况。 我们有10亿人完全没有医疗服务， 气候变化，生物多样性丧失， 还有很多很多的问题。 我们希望科学能够 为这些问题提供答案。
But before you leave this theatre today, I want you to promise one thing. We're going to make science accessible — not just to the people who can afford it, but a billion others who can't. Let's make science and scientific literacy a human right. The moment that you pass the tingling feeling of making a discovery to another child, you're enabling them to be the next group of people who will actually solve these problems.
但是在你离开这个会场之前， 我希望你们能答应我一件事。 我们将合力使科学变得平易近人—— 不仅仅是那些能够负担得起的人， 还有那十亿负担不起的人。 让我们把科学和科学素养 作为人类的权利。 当你将发现新事物带来的刺激感 传递给另一个孩子时， 你可能会让他们成为下一代 能够真正解决这些问题的人。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（掌声）