For me, it was not being invited to a friend's wedding. At first, I didn't really mind. I thought he was having a small reception. But then I kept meeting people who were going to the same wedding, and they weren't as close to the groom as I was ... and I felt left out. That really sucked. It felt really unfair.
﻿有一次，我的一个朋友 没有邀请我参加他的婚礼。 最开始我并不在意。 我想他只是举办了一个小小的聚会。 但是后来我遇见了 好多去参加婚礼的人， 这些人也并没有 我和新郎的关系那么好， 我觉得自己受了冷落， 非常难受。 感觉很不公平。
For my daughters, Lipsi and Greta, it was last week. They were taking turns massaging their mom's back with a toy for back rubs, and then one of the girls felt that the other girl had a longer go. That's when I walk into the room to find Greta in a rage, shouting, "That's not fair!" and Lipsi in tears, and my wife holding a stopwatch to make sure that each girl had precisely one minute on the toy.
上个礼拜，我的两个女儿， Lipsi和Greta 她们正在轮流用一个按摩棒 给妈妈按摩后背。 一个女孩儿感觉另一个 按摩的时间长了一点， 就在这时我走进了房间， 发现Greta开始发火， 大喊着”这不公平！” Lipsi则哭了起来， 我的妻子只好拿了一块秒表， 确保每个女孩用的时间正好一分钟。
So if you're anything like me or my girls, the last thing that upset you probably also had to do with unfairness. That's because unfairness triggers us so strongly that we can't think straight. We become afraid and suspicious. Our unfairness antennae stick up. We feel pain, and we walk away.
如果你是我和我女儿这样的人， 最近一次让你心烦的事， 很可能也跟不公平有关。 因为不公平总能让我们反应强烈， 无法理智思考， 我们变得害怕而多疑， 对于不公平十分敏感。 我们感到痛苦，于是避而远之。
Unfairness is one of the defining issues of our society, it's one of the root causes of polarization, and it's bad news for business. At work, unfairness makes people defensive and disengaged. A study shows that 70 percent of workers in the US are disengaged, and this is costing the companies 550 billion dollars a year every year. This is, like, half the total spent on education in the US. This is the size of the GDP of a country like Austria.
不公平是我们社会中的 一个重要问题， 它是两极分化的一个根本原因， 对于企业来讲， 这可不是一个好消息。 在工作中，不公平让人们 变得消极而散漫。 一项研究表明美国70%的工作者 都存在工作不投入的现象， 而这正在让公司 每年遭受5500亿美元的损失。 这个数字是美国 每年教育经费的一半。 像奥地利这种国家的 GDP也就这么多。
So removing unfairness and promoting fairness should be our priority. But what does it mean in practice? Is it about more rules? Is it about systems? Is it about equality? Well, partly, but fairness is more interesting than rules and equality. Fairness works in surprising ways.
所以消除不公平，推进公平的进程 应该成为我们的首要任务。 但我们又该如何付诸行动呢？ 应该有更多的规定吗？ 是体系的问题吗？ 是我们的平等出了问题吗？ 的确，但这只是一部分原因， 公平远比规章制度和平等要复杂。 公平以一种你意想不到的 方式运作着。
15 years ago, I left a US investment bank to join a large Italian state-owned oil company. It was a different world. I thought the key to getting the best performance was a risk-reward system where you could give the high performers bonuses and promotions and give the underperformers something to worry about. But in this company, we had fixed salaries and lifelong jobs. Careers were set, so my toolkit wasn't very effective, and I was frustrated.
十五年前，我离开了一家 美国的投资银行， 加入了一个庞大的 意大利国有石油公司。 工作环境完全不一样。 我当时想，要有好的表现， 关键就在于一套“风险补偿系统”。 在这种体系里，表现好的人 得到报酬和提拔， 表现不好的人则得到一些警告。 但是在这家公司里， 我们的工资都是固定的， 有着一份终身工作。 岗位既然固定了， 我的办法就变得没那么有效了。 我感到很沮丧。
But then I saw that this company was producing some pockets of excellence, areas in which they beat the competition in very tough, competitive sectors. This was true in trading, in project management -- it was very true in exploration. Our exploration team was finding more oil and gas than any other company in the world. It was a phenomenon. Everyone was trying to figure out how this was possible. I thought it was luck, but after each new discovery, that became less and less likely. So did we have a special tool? No. Did we have a killer application that no one else had? No. Was it one genius who was finding oil for the whole team? No, we hadn't hired a senior guy in years.
但是后来我发现这家公司 有一些特别的优势， 在一些领域里 他们可以打败竞争对手， 而且是在非常棘手， 竞争激烈的部门。 在贸易方面是这样， 在项目管理上是这样， 在勘探方面也是这样。 我们的勘探团队 发现的石油和天然气 比世界上任何其他公司都要多。 真是个奇迹。 每个人都想知道这是怎么做到的。 一开始我想这大概是运气吧， 但是持续的新发现让这种猜测 变得越来越站不住脚。 那么我们有什么 特别的工具吗？并没有。 我们有独一无二的 杀手级应用程序吗？没有。 是有个天才帮整个团队找到石油吗？ 不，我们好几年没有 雇用高级员工了。
So what was our secret sauce? I started looking at them really carefully. I looked at my friend, who drilled seven dry wells, writing off more than a billion dollars for the company, and found oil on the eighth. I was nervous for him ... but he was so relaxed. I mean, these guys knew what they were doing.
那么我们的秘诀到底是什么？ 我开始非常仔细地研究。 我发现我的朋友， 他打了七口枯井， 浪费了公司十几亿美金， 最后终于在第八口里发现了石油。 我一直很担心他， 但他毫不在意。 这些人完全知道自己在做什么。
And then it hit me: it was about fairness. These guys were working in a company where they didn't need to worry about short-term results. They weren't going to be penalized for bad luck or for an honest mistake. They knew they were valued for what they were trying to do, not the outcome. They were valued as human beings. They were part of a community. Whatever happened, the company would stand by them. And for me, this is the definition of fairness. It's when you can lower those unfairness antennae, put them at rest. Then great things follow. These guys could be true to their purpose, which was finding oil and gas. They didn't have to worry about company politics or greed or fear. They could be good risk-takers, because they weren't too defensive and they weren't gambling to take huge rewards. And they were excellent team workers. They could trust their colleagues. They didn't need to look behind their backs. And they were basically having fun. They were having so much fun, one guy even confessed that he was having more fun at the company Christmas dinner than at his own Christmas dinner.
接下来我恍然大悟：这就是公平。 这些人是在为一个 不需要他们考虑 短期结果的公司工作。 他们不会因为运气不好或者 无意犯的错误而受到惩罚。 他们知道，是自己所做的事 让自己受到重视， 而不是什么结果。 他们被当作人来看待。 他们是集体的一部分。 不论发生什么， 公司都会做他们的后盾。 对于我来说，这就是公平的意义。 当你可以放下对不公平的戒备， 好事就会随之而来。 这些人可以专心工作， 寻找石油和天然气， 而不需要担心公司政策， 贪婪或恐惧。 他们可以冒更大的险， 因为他们不用太心存戒备， 也不用下很大赌注 来换取高额回报。 他们都是非常优秀的团队工作者。 他们可以信任自己的同事。 他们不需要提防 别人从背后捅刀子。 而且他们还都很享受工作。 他们非常开心， 一个人甚至坦白 相比在家吃圣诞大餐，他更享受 公司的圣诞晚宴。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
But these guys, essentially, were working in a fair system where they could do what they felt was right instead of what's selfish, what's quick, what's convenient, and to be able to do what we feel is right is a key ingredient for fairness, but it is also a great motivator. And it wasn't just explorers who were doing the right thing. There was an HR director who proposed that I hire someone internally and give him a managerial job. This guy was very good, but he didn't finish high school, so formally, he had no qualifications. But he was so good, it made sense, and so we gave him the job. Or the other guy, who asked me for a budget to build a cheese factory next to our plant in Ecuador, in the village. It didn't make any sense: no one ever built a cheese factory. But this is what the village wanted, because the milk they had would spoil before they could sell it, so that's what they needed. And so we built it. So in these examples and many others, I learned that to be fair, my colleagues and I, we needed to take a risk and stick our head out, but in a fair system, you can do that. You can dare to be fair.
但最重要的是，这些人在一个 公平的体系里工作， 在这里他们可以 做任何他们认为正确的事情， 而不是那些利己的， 快捷的，方便的事情。 被允许做我们认为正确的事情， 是构成公平的关键因素， 同样也是巨大的动力。 不仅仅是这些勘探者们 在做正确的事情。 曾经有一位人力资源总监 建议我从内部雇佣某个人， 给他一份管理工作。 这个人很优秀， 但是他高中都没念完， 所以严格来讲，他并没有资格。 但是他太优秀了，完全能够胜任， 我们就给了他这份工作。 还有一个人曾经向我申请一笔经费， 要建造一座奶酪工厂， 就建在厄瓜多尔一个村子里 我们的工厂旁边。 这简直太不靠谱了， 我们没人修建过奶酪工厂。 但是村民们需要它， 因为他们的牛奶经常坏掉， 根本卖不完，所以这是他们需要的。 因此我们建了这座工厂。 在这类事件中， 我明白了要想变得公平， 我和我的同事需要 承担风险，跳出规则， 但在一个公平的体系中， 这样做没问题。 你可以勇敢地去做。
So I realized that these guys and other colleagues were achieving great results, doing great things, in a way that no bonus could buy. So I was fascinated. I wanted to learn how this thing really worked, and I wanted to learn it also for myself, to become a better leader. So I started talking to colleagues, to coaches, to headhunters and neuroscientists, and what I discovered is that what these guys were up to and the way they worked is really supported by recent brain science. And I've also discovered that this can work at all levels in any type of company. You don't need the fixed salaries or the stable careers. This is because science shows that humans have an innate sense of fairness. We know what is right and what is wrong before we can talk or think about it.
所以我意识到，这些人 和我的其他同事 在追求好的结果，做正确的事情， 这是不能用金钱买到的。 这深深吸引了我。 我想知道这种事情 到底是如何办到的， 同时也是为了能让我自己 变成一个更好的领导者。 所以我开始和同事，教练， 猎头，和神经学家交流。 我发现， 这些人做的事和他们工作的方式 是有着最新脑科学理论支持的。 我还发现这对于各个层级， 各种公司都适用。 并不只适用于有着 固定工资和稳定工作的岗位。 这是因为，科学证明， 人类有与生俱来的公平感。 什么是对的，什么是错的， 在谈论或者琢磨它之前， 我们就已经知道。
My favorite experiment has six-month old babies watching a ball trying to struggle up a hill. And there's a helpful, friendly square that pushes the ball up the hill, and then a mean triangle pushes the ball back down. After watching this several times, they ask the babies to pick, to choose what to play with. They can pick a ball, a square or a triangle. They never pick up the triangle. All the babies want to be the square.
有一个我最喜欢的实验， 让六个月大的婴儿， 看着一个球努力地 想要爬上一个山坡。 友好且乐于助人的方块 会帮这个球推上山坡， 而卑鄙的三角则想要 把这个球推下去。 数次之后， 实验人员让婴儿选择 和谁一起玩， 他们可以选择球，方块或者三角。 他们从来没有选择过三角。 所有婴儿都想和方块一起玩。
And science also shows that when we see or perceive fairness, our brain releases a substance that gives us pleasure, proper joy. But when we perceive unfairness, we feel pain ... even greater pain than the same type of pain as if I really hurt myself. That's because unfairness triggers the primitive, reptile part of our brain, the part that deals with threats and survival, and when unfairness triggers a threat, that's all we can think about. Motivation, creativity, teamwork, they all go way back.
科学同样证明， 当我们看到或察觉到公平的时候， 我们的大脑会释放一种 令我们快乐的物质， 令我们愉悦。 但是当我们察觉到不公平的时候， 我们会感到痛苦， 甚至要比 有时候真的伤到了自己还要痛苦。 这是因为不公平刺激了 大脑最原始的那部分， 那个用于处理威胁和 生存问题的部分。 当不公平催生了一种 威胁的时候，一切都完了。 动力，创造力，团队合作， 全都没有了。
And it makes sense that we're wired this way, because we're social animals. We need to be part of a community to survive. We're born so helpless that someone needs to look after us until we're maybe 10 years old, so our brain evolves towards food. We need to be in that community. So whether I like it or not, not being invited to the friend's wedding, my lizard brain is generating the same response as if I'm about to be pushed out from my community.
我们如此紧张是有道理的， 因为我们是群居动物。 我们需要成为集体的 一部分才能生存。 我们生来都是如此弱小， 可能到十岁 都需要有人照顾我们。 所以我们的大脑向食物进化。 我们需要成为集体的一部分。 所以不管我喜不喜欢， 没有被邀请参加朋友的婚礼， 我那原始的大脑都会产生反应， 让我感觉像被集体排斥了一样。
So science explains quite nicely why fairness is good and why unfairness makes us really defensive, but science also shows that in a fair environment, not only do we all want to be the square, but we tend to be the square, and this allows other people to be fair in turn. This creates a beautiful fairness circle. But while we start off fair ... one drop of unfairness contaminates the whole pool, and unfortunately, there's plenty of drops in that pool. So our effort should be to filter out as much unfairness as we can from everywhere, starting from our communities, starting from our companies. I worry about this a lot because I lead a team of 3,000 excellent people, and the difference between 3,000 happy, motivated team workers and 3,000 clock-watchers is everything.
因此，科学很好的说明了 为什么公平很好， 为什么不公平让我们如此抵触， 但科学同样说明了 在一个公平的环境里， 我们不只是想成为那个方块， 在潜意识里就是这么认为的。 这让其他人也渐渐地想要变得公平。 这种现象创造了一个积极的公平循环。 但虽然我们一开始是公平的…… 一颗老鼠屎却能坏了一锅汤， 不幸的是，很多情况下都是如此。 所以我们应该致力于 尽可能地把不公平去掉， 从我们的集体开始，公司开始。 我对这些事很担心，是因为我领导着 一个有着三千位优秀员工的团队。 最重要的，就是三千名快乐， 充满动力的员工和三千名看着表 等着下班的人之间的区别。
So the first thing I try to do in my fairness crusade is to try to take myself out of the equation. That means being aware of my own biases. For example, I really like people who say yes to whatever I suggest.
所以，在我的公平改革之中， 我尝试的第一件事情就是 就是把我自己去掉。 我的意思是了解自己的偏见。 比如，我特别喜欢 那些不管我说什么 都同意的人。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
But that's not very good for the company and not very good for anyone who has different ideas. So we try to actively promote a culture of diversity of opinions and diversity of character. The second thing we do is a little more procedural. We look at all the rules, the processes, the systems in the company, the ones we use to take decisions and allocate resources, and we try to get rid of anything that's not very clear, not very rational, doesn't make sense, and we also try to fix anything that's limiting the transfer of information within the company. We then look at the culture and the motivation for the same reasons.
但是这对于一个公司 来说不是什么好事， 对于那些持有不同意见的人也不好。 所以我们想要积极推广 一种包容各种观点 和不同性格的文化。 我们做的第二件事情 则有一点程序化。 我们检阅所有的规定， 流程，和公司的体制， 那些我们用于做决定 和分配资源的东西， 摒弃掉那些不清楚的， 不理性的，不合理的。 我们同样设法修正那些 限制公司内部信息传递的东西。 我们又以同样的方式 检视公司文化和积极性。
But my point is that however hard you look at the rules, the processes, the systems -- and we have to do that -- but however hard we look, we're never going to do enough to get to the real essence of fairness. That's because the last mile of fairness requires something else. It's about what people's emotions are, what their needs are, what's going on in their private lives, what society needs. These are all questions and elements that are very hard to put into a spreadsheet, into an algorithm. It's very hard to make them part of our rational decision. But if we miss these, we're missing key important points, and the outcome is likely to feel unfair. So we should cross-check our decisions with our fairness center switched on. Is it right that this guy should get the job he's really hoping to get? Is it right that this guy should be fired? Is it right that we should be charging so much for this product? These are tough questions. But if we take the time to ask ourselves whether the rational answer is the right one ... we all know deep inside what the answer is. We've known since we were babies. And to know what the right answer is is pretty cool for decision-making. And if we turn on our hearts, that's the key to getting the real best out of people, because they can smell it if you care, and only when you really care will they leave their fears behind and bring their true selves to work.
但我的观点是， 不管你下了多大工夫去修订规则， 流程，体系——这些是必要的—— 但是尽管我们付出很大努力， 我们永远得不到完全的公平。 因为达到公平的最后几步 需要一些其他的东西。 这些东西和人们的情绪有关， 和他们的需求有关， 和个人生活有关， 也和社会需求有关。 这些都是很难放进 电子表格，用程序计算的问题。 很难把这些变成我们 做理性决策的一部分。 但是如果我们少了这些， 就会缺失关键点， 结果就是，人们又有可能感到不公平。 所以我们需要在有公平意识的情况下， 反复核对我们的决定。 这个人应当得到那份 他特别想要的工作吗？ 这个人真的应该被开除吗？ 我们真的应该在这个产品上 花这么多钱吗？ 这些都是难题。 但是如果我们真的静下来好好问自己 合理的答案就是正确的吗…… 我们其实内心都知道答案是什么。 我们从婴儿时期就具备了这种能力。 知道答案是什么， 对于做决定是很有帮助的。 而且，如果我们敞开心扉， 你就可以看到人们真实，最好的一面， 因为如果你真的用心的话， 别人是可以感觉到的。 只有你真正关心他们的时候， 他们才会放下恐惧 并把他们真正的自我用在工作上。
So if fairness is a keystone of life, why isn't every leader making it their priority? Wouldn't it be cool to work in a company that was more fair? Wouldn't it be great to have colleagues and bosses that were selected and trained for fairness and for character and not based on 60-year-old GMATs? Wouldn't it be nice to be able to knock on the door of a Chief Fairness Officer?
所以，如果公平是人生的基石， 为什么不是每一个领导都重视它呢？ 在一个更公平的公司工作 难道不是更好吗？ 如果老板和同事 都是因为公平和人品 被选拔和训练，而不是根据 60年不变的GMATs，不是很棒吗？ 可以去敲“首席公平官”的门 难道不好吗？
We'll get there, but why is it not happening now? Well, partly, it's because of inertia, partly, it's because fairness isn't always easy. It requires judgment and risk. Drilling that eighth well was a risk. Promoting the guy who didn't finish high school was a risk. Building a cheese factory in Ecuador was a risk. But fairness is a risk worth taking, so we should be asking ourselves, where can we take this risk? Where can we push ourselves a little bit further, to go beyond what's rational and do what's right?
我们迟早会这样的， 但为什么不能是现在？ 有部分原因是人的惰性， 部分是因为公平并不总是简单的事。 它需要判断，有风险。 打那八口井去寻找石油是有风险的。 提拔高中没毕业的人是有风险的。 在厄瓜多尔建一座 奶酪工厂也是有风险的。 但是，公平是一个值得尝试的风险， 所以我们需要问自己， 我们在哪些方面可以冒这个险？ 在哪些方面我们可以让自己更进一步， 突破“合理的事”而去做“正确的事”？
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（掌声）