Imagine waking up to a stranger -- sometimes multiple strangers -- questioning your right to existence for something that you wrote online, waking up to an angry message, scared and worried for your safety. Welcome to the world of cyberharassment.
﻿想象一下，睡梦中醒来时 旁边有个陌生人—— 有时是好几个陌生人—— 因为你在网上写的文字， 而质疑你的生存权， 醒来时面对一条愤怒的短信， 害怕和担心自己的安全。 欢迎来到网络骚扰的世界。
The kind of harassment that women face in Pakistan is very serious and leads to sometimes deadly outcomes. This kind of harassment keeps women from accessing the internet -- essentially, knowledge. It's a form of oppression.
巴基斯坦女性面临的骚扰非常严重， 有时会导致致命的后果。 这种骚扰使妇女无法上网—— 从本质上讲，就无法获取知识。 这是一种压迫。
Pakistan is the sixth most populous country in the world, with 140 million people having access to mobile technologies, and 15 percent internet penetration. And this number doesn't seem to go down with the rise of new technologies. Pakistan is also the birthplace of the youngest Nobel Peace Prize winner, Malala Yousafzai. But that's just one aspect of Pakistan. Another aspect is where the twisted concept of honor is linked to women and their bodies; where men are allowed to disrespect women and even kill them sometimes in the name of so-called "family honor"; where women are left to die right outside their houses for speaking to a man on a mobile phone, in the name of "family honor." Let me say this very clearly: it's not honor; it's a cold-blooded murder.
巴基斯坦是世界第六人口大国， 有1.4亿人可以使用移动技术， 互联网普及率达到15%。 随着新技术的兴起， 这个数字似乎还在攀升。 巴基斯坦也是最年轻的 诺贝尔和平奖得主 马拉拉·优萨福扎伊的出生地。 但这只是巴基斯坦的一个方面。 另一方面是，扭曲的荣誉概念 与妇女和她们的身体联系在一起； 这里允许男性不尊重女性， 有时甚至以所谓"家族荣誉"的名义 杀害她们； 女人被扔在屋外等死， 只因为用手机与一个男人通话， 这样做的名义是“家族荣誉”。 让我把这一点说清楚： 这不是荣誉； 这是冷血的谋杀。
I come from a very small village in Punjab, Pakistan, where women are not allowed to pursue their higher education. The elders of my extended family didn't allow their women to pursue their higher education or their professional careers. However, unlike the other male guardians of my family, my father was one who really supported my ambitions. To get my law degree, of course, it was really difficult, and [there were] frowns of disapproval. But in the end, I knew it's either me or them, and I chose myself.
我来自巴基斯坦旁遮普的 一个非常小的村庄， 那里不允许妇女接受高等教育。 大家庭的长辈不允许家中女人 接受高等教育或从事任何职业。 然而，与家族的其他男性长者不同， 我的父亲真心地支持 我的雄心壮志。 为了拿到法学学位， 当然那很难， 还有因不赞成而紧缩的眉头。 但最终，我知道， 要么选自己，要么选他们， 我选择了我自己。
(Applause)
（掌声）
My family's traditions and expectations for a woman wouldn't allow me to own a mobile phone until I was married. And even when I was married, this tool became a tool for my own surveillance. When I resisted this idea of being surveilled by my ex-husband, he really didn't approve of this and threw me out of his house, along with my six-month-old son, Abdullah. And that was the time when I first asked myself, "Why? Why are women not allowed to enjoy the same equal rights enshrined in our Constitution? While the law states that a woman has the same equal access to the information, why is it always men -- brothers, fathers and husbands -- who are granting these rights to us, effectively making the law irrelevant?"
我的家族传统和对女人的期望 不允许我结婚前拥有手机。 即使在我结婚之后， 手机变成了监视我自己的工具。 当我拒绝接受 前夫要监视我的想法时， 他绝不同意， 并把我和六个月大的儿子阿卜杜拉 一起赶出了他的房子。 那是我第一次问自己：“为什么？ 为什么不让妇女享有 《宪法》规定的同样平等权利？ 既然法律规定妇女有 同样的平等机会获取信息， 但为什么总是要男人—— 兄弟、父亲和丈夫—— 来赐予我们这些权利， 而让法律变得形同虚设？”
So I decided to take a step, instead of keep questioning these patriarchal structures and societal norms. And I founded the Digital Rights Foundation in 2012 to address all the issues and women's experiences in online spaces and cyberharassment. From lobbying for free and safe internet to convincing young women that access to the safe internet is their fundamental, basic, human right, I'm trying to play my part in igniting the spark to address the questions that have bothered me all these years.
所以我决定采取行动， 而不只是继续质疑 这些父权制结构和社会规范。 我在2012年成立了 数字权利基金会， 以解决网络空间中 女性遇到的问题和经历， 以及网络骚扰。 从游说争取自由且安全的互联网， 到说服年轻女性相信 使用安全的互联网 是她们的基本人权， 我正在努力发挥自己的作用， 燃起星火以求解决这些年来 困扰我的问题。
With a hope in my heart, and to offer a solution to this menace, I started Pakistan's and the region's first cyberharassment help line in December 2016 --
我心中怀着希望， 为了解决这一威胁， 我设立了巴基斯坦及地区的 第一条网络骚扰求助热线， 2016年12月开通——
(Applause)
(掌声)
to extend my support to the women who do not know who to turn to when they face serious threats online. I think of the women who do not have the necessary support to deal with the mental trauma when they feel unsafe in online spaces, and they go about their daily activities, thinking that there is a rape threat in their in-box.
向那些在网上面临严重威胁时 不知向谁求助的女性 伸出援手。 我想到的是那些 在网上感到不安全时 没有必要的支持来 应对精神创伤的女性， 她们每天忙忙碌碌， 还要担心收件箱里的强暴威胁。
Safe access to the internet is an access to knowledge, and knowledge is freedom. When I fight for women's digital rights, I'm fighting for equality.
安全上网就是通向知识之路， 知识就是自由。 当我为妇女的网络权利而战时， 我为平等而战。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（掌声）