2014, July 5, the Ukrainian army entered Sloviansk city in eastern Ukraine. They gathered all the locals in Lenin Square. Then, they organized the public crucifixion of the son of a pro-Russia militant. He was only three years old. Refugee Galina Pyshnyak told this story to Russia's First TV channel.
﻿2014年7月5日， 乌克兰的军队进入了东乌克兰的斯拉维扬斯科市。 他们在当地的列宁广场聚集了大量群众。 随后，他们组织了在公共场合下的十字架绞刑， 对象是一位支持俄罗斯的激进组织的儿子。 他才只有三岁。 难民 Galina Pyshnyak 把这个故事 告诉给了俄罗斯的第一电视频道。
In fact, this incident never happened. I visited Sloviansk. There is no Lenin Square. In reality, Galina's husband was an active pro-Russia militant in Donbass.
而事实上这件事从未发生。 我曾经拜访过斯拉维扬斯科市。 那里没有列宁广场。 事实上，Galina 的丈夫在 Donbass  是一个活跃的亲俄激进分子。
This is just one of many examples. Ukraine has been suffering from Russian propaganda and fake news for four years now, but Russia is not the only player in this space. Fake news is happening all around the world. We all know about fake news. We see it and read it all the time. But the thing about fake news is that we don't always know what is fake and what is real, but we base our decisions on facts we get from the press and social media. When facts are false, decisions are wrong.
这只是很多例子中的其中一个。 乌克兰已经被俄罗斯宣传和假新闻折磨了 四年。 不过俄罗斯并不是这个方面唯一的玩家。 假新闻在全世界都在发生。 我们都知道假新闻， 我们时时刻刻都能看到它和读到它。 但是关于假新闻的问题在于 我们并不总是能知道它们是真的还是假的， 但是我们通过我们从媒体 以及社交软件获得的事实来做决策。 当事实是假的时候， 决策也就是错误的。
A lot of people stop believing anyone at all and this is even more dangerous. They easily become prey to populists in elections, or even take up arms. Fake news is not only bad for journalism. It's a threat for democracy and society.
很多的人不再相信任何人， 而这是更危险的。 他们很容易成为民粹主义者在选举中的猎物， 甚至会拿起武器。 假新闻不止对新闻业不利， 它同时对民主和社会造成威胁。
Four years ago, unmarked soldiers entered the Crimean Peninsula, and at the same time, Russian media was going crazy with fake news about Ukraine. So a group of journalists, including me, started a website to investigate this fake news. We called it StopFake. The idea was simple: take a piece of news, check it with verifiable proof like photos, videos and other strong evidence. If it turns out to be fake, we put it on our website. Now, StopFake is an informational hub which analyzes propaganda in all its phases. We have 11 language versions, we have millions of views, We have taught more than 10,000 people how to distinguish true from false. And we teach fact checkers all around the world.
四年以前，没有任何标记的士兵 进入了克里米亚半岛。 同时， 俄罗斯媒体疯狂地散播关于乌克兰的假新闻。 所以一群记者，包括我， 建立了一个网站去调查假新闻。 我们给这个网站起的名字是“停止假新闻”。 我们的想法很简单， 取一则新闻，查一下有没有 可以支撑这条新闻的的证据， 像照片，视频和其他明确的证据。 如果结果是假的， 我们就把这条新闻放在我们的网站上。 所以，“停止假新闻”是一个信息中心， 它分析所有阶段的宣传。 我们有11个语言版本，几百万的关注者。 我们已经教了一万多人 如何辨别真假。 我们教的检验真相的人来自世界各地。
StopFake has uncovered more than 1,000 fakes about Ukraine. We've identified 18 narratives created using this fake news, such as Ukraine is a fascist state, a failed state, a state run by a junta who came to power as a result of a coup d'état. We proved that it's not bad journalism; it's a deliberate act of misinformation.
“停止假新闻”已经揭露了 超过1000条关于乌克兰的假新闻。 我们确定了十八个 用假新闻制造的主题。 比如乌克兰是一个法西斯国家， 一个失败的国家， 一个由政变上台的军事政府所统治的国家。 我们证明那些不是粗制滥造的新闻， 而是故意制造的错误信息。
Fake news is a powerful weapon in information warfare, but there is something we can do about it. We all have smartphones. When we see something interesting, it's often automatic. We just click and pass it along. But how can you not be a part of fake news? First, if it's too dramatic, too emotional, too clickbait, then it's very likely that it isn't true. The truth is boring sometimes.
假新闻在信息战中是一个很有力的武器， 但是我们对它也不是什么都不能做。 我们都有智能手机， 当我们看到一些有趣的事情时， 一般我们都会自动的 点击并分享给他人。 但是你怎么能不成为假新闻的一部分呢？ 第一，如果这个新闻太戏剧化， 太情感化，看上去像是骗点击的， 那它很有可能就不是真的。 真实的东西常常很平淡。
(Laughter)
（大笑）
Manipulations are always sexy. They are designed to captivate you. Do your research. This is the second point, very simple. Look at other sites. Check out alternative news sources. Google names, addresses, license plates, experts and offers. Don't just believe, check. It's the only way to stop this culture of fake news.
操纵了的东西总是很有吸引力的。 它们就是设计出来迷惑你的。 你应该做一下研究。 第二点，非常简单， 看一下其它网站, 看看其它可以替代的新闻资源。 谷歌一下名字，地址， 牌照，专家和提供的内容。 不要只是相信，要查一下。 这是唯一停止假新闻文化的办法。
This information warfare is not only about fake news. Our society depends on trust: trust in our institutions, in science, trust in our leaders, trust in our news outlets. And it's on us to find a way to rebuild trust, because fake news destroys it.
这个信息战不只是针对假新闻。 我们的社会建立在相互信任之上； 信任政府机构， 信任科学， 信任我们的领导， 信任我们的新闻来源。 而我们有责任来想办法重新建立信任。 假新闻摧毁了这些信任，
So ask yourself, what have you lost your faith in? Where has trust been ruined for you? And what are you going to do about it?
所以我们要问问自己， 你对什么失去了信心？ 你的信心在哪里被摧毁了？ 你又将会为之做什么呢？
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）