[This talk contains graphic images Viewer discretion is advised]
﻿【此演讲含有可能会引起不适的图像】 我收集物品， 我收集给奴隶打上财产标志的烙铁。 我收集给成年人带的手铐， 以及给成年人带的脚镣， 还有给孩子带的。 我收集黑人奴隶被施以私行 而处死的明信片。 是的，它们记录了各种私刑。 它们同时也记录了 无数围观私刑的人们， 而且这些都是明信片， 是被用于通信的明信片。 我收集那些支持奴隶制的书， 这些书把黑人刻画成罪犯， 或者是没有灵魂的动物。
I collect objects. I collect branding irons that were used to mark slaves as property. I collect shackles for adults and restraints for adults as well as children. I collect lynching postcards. Yes, they depict lynchings. They also depict the massive crowds that attended these lynchings, and they are postcards that were also used for correspondence. I collect proslavery books that portray black people as criminals or as animals without souls.
我给你们带来了其中的一些。 这是一个船上的烙铁。 这曾被用来标记奴隶。 其实他们被标记的时候还不是奴隶。 他们还生活在非洲。 但是一旦被标记了“S”， 他们就被选定为奴隶， 会被带到美国 以及欧洲。
I brought you something today. This is a ship's branding iron. It was used to mark slaves. Well, they actually were not slaves when they were marked. They were in Africa. But they were marked with an "S" to designate that they were going to be slaves when they were brought to the US and when they were brought to Europe.
在我年轻的时候，另外一个 让我很感兴趣的东西，或者说图像， 是三K党长袍 （美国种族主义的代表性组织）。 在南卡罗莱纳州长大的我， 偶尔会见到三K党的集会， 事实上是比较常见的。 这些记忆从来没有 从我的记忆里消失。 对于三K党我没有真正 做什么事情，直到 25 年之后。 几年前，我开始研究三K党， 三次不同的三K党运动， 尤其是第二次。 第二次三K党的兴起使得 它拥有超过五百万的活跃成员， 这个数字是当时美国人口的百分之五， 也是当时纽约市的总人口。 在佐治亚州巴克海德区的 三K党长袍工厂十分忙碌， 需要二十四小时运作以满足订单。 它们拥有 2 万个长袍的 库存来应对不时之需。 作为一个手工制品的收集者， 以及一位艺术家， 我真的希望三K党长袍 也能成为我藏品的一部分， 因为这些手工制品和物品能讲述故事， 但是我的确找不到 一件高质量的长袍。 当一个美国黑人找不到 高质量的三K党长袍， 他该怎么办呢？
Another object or image that captured my imagination when I was younger was a Klan robe. Growing up in South Carolina, I would see Ku Klux Klan rallies occasionally, actually more than occasionally, and the memories of those events never really left my mind. And I didn't really do anything with that imagery until 25 years later. A few years ago, I started researching the Klan, the three distinct waves of the Klan, the second one in particular. The second wave of the Klan had more than five million active members, which was five percent of the population at the time, which was also the population of New York City at the time. The Klan robe factory in the Buckhead neighborhood of Georgia was so busy it became a 24-hour factory to keep up with orders. They kept 20,000 robes on hand at all time to keep up with the demand. As a collector of artifacts and as an artist, I really wanted a Klan robe to be part of my collection, because artifacts and objects tell stories, but I really couldn't find one that was really good quality. What is a black man to do in America when he can't find the quality Klan robe that he's looking for?
（笑声）
(Laughter)
所以我没有其他的选择。 我决定我要自己做 美国最高质量的三K党长袍。 这不是你能在三K党集会中 看到的传统的三K党长袍。 我使用肯特布， 迷彩， 弹力纤维，粗麻布，丝绸， 缎子以及不同的款式。 我还给不同的年龄做， 给年轻的小孩做， 还有幼童， 我甚至给婴儿也做了一套。
So I had no other choice. I decided I was going to make the best quality Klan robes in America. These are not your traditional Klan robes you would see at any KKK rally. I used kente cloth, I used camouflage, spandex, burlap, silks, satins and different patterns. I make them for different age groups; I make them for young kids as well as toddlers. I even made one for an infant.
在做了这么多的长袍之后， 我意识到三K党的政策 已经达到的效果， 或者说一百年前想要达到的效果， 在今天发生了。 我们有着种族隔离的学校， 社区和公共场所， 然而使得这些政策产生效果的， 并不是带着三K党帽子的人。 我的工作是有关奴隶制的长期影响。 我们不仅仅是在解决 系统种族主义残留的问题。 它是我们做的每件事的基础。 我们有种族隔离的社区， 公共场所和学校。 黑人投票者被镇压。 我们有着不成比例的被监禁的人数。 我们面临环境种族主义， 遭遇警察的残暴对待。
After making so many robes, I realized that the policies the Klan had in place or wanted to have in place a hundred years ago are in place today. We have segregated schools, neighborhoods, workplaces, and it's not the people wearing hoods that are keeping these policies in place. My work is about the long-term impact of slavery. We're not just dealing with the residue of systemic racism. It's the basis of every single thing we do. Again we have intentionally segregated neighborhoods, workplaces and schools. We have voter suppression. We have disproportionate representation of minorities incarcerated. We have environmental racism. We have police brutality.
我给你们带了几件东西。 种族主义的隐秘， 就是它力量的一部分。 当你被歧视的时候， 你不能永远证明你是被歧视的。 种族主义有着隐藏的力量， 当它藏起来的时候，它是安全的， 因为它融入了文化环境中。 我制作这些长袍来表明，
I brought you a few things today. The stealth aspect of racism is part of its power. When you're discriminated against, you can't always prove you're being discriminated against. Racism has the power to hide, and when it hides, it's kept safe because it blends in. I created this robe to illustrate that.
美国资本主义的基础就是奴隶制。 奴隶是资本主义的资本。 1868 年，第一个大巫师， 内森贝 · 弗福雷斯 是一个美利坚邦联士兵， 也是一个靠奴隶贸易发家的百万富翁。 他从奴隶贸易创造的财富—— 视奴隶为财产的观念—— 是我心中挥之不去的阴影。 单单棉花贸易一项就产生了 大约两亿美元的价值。 这个数字等于现在的五十亿美元。 很多今天的财富都是 代代相传下来的。 哦，我忘记了这些经济作物。 槐蓝（用作染料）， 大米以及烟草。
The basis of capitalism in America is slavery. Slaves were the capital in capitalism. The first Grand Wizard in 1868, Nathan Bedford Forrest, was a Confederate soldier and a millionaire slave trader. The wealth that was created from chattel slavery -- that's slaves as property -- would boggle the mind. Cotton sales alone in 1860 equalled 200 million dollars. That would equal five billion dollars today. A lot of that wealth can be seen today through generational wealth. Oh, I forgot the other crops as well. You have indigo, rice and tobacco.
在 2015 年这一年里， 我每周制作一个长袍。 在制作了 75 件长袍之后，我顿悟了。 我意识到了白人至上主义就在这里， 白人至上主义背后 最大的力量并不是三K党， 而是系统种族主义的正常化。 我还意识到一件事， 长袍对我来说已经没有 任何威慑作用了。 但是如果我们，作为一个集体， 看着这些东西—— 烙铁，手铐，长袍， 我们能意识到它们是 我们历史的一部分， 我们就可以找到一种方法， 使得它们不再能威慑我们。 如果我们能够直面系统种族主义， 并且承认它已经 植入到我们国家的根基。 那么我们就能在种族隔离的 学校，社区和公共场所， 对有意的种族隔离 采取一些实际的行动。 但是只有在我们能够说出， 以及面对这奴隶制的遗毒， 才能消除丑陋的奴隶制 遗留下的东西。
In 2015, I made one robe a week for the entire year. After making 75 robes, I had an epiphany. I have a realization that white supremacy is there, but the biggest force of white supremacy is not the KKK, it's the normalization of systemic racism. There was something else I realized. The robes had no more power over me at all. But if we as a people collectively look at these objects -- branding irons, shackles, robes -- and realize that they are part of our history, we can find a way to where they have no more power over us. If we look at systemic racism and acknowledge that it's sown into the very fabric of who we are as a country, then we can actually do something about the intentional segregation in our schools, neighborhoods and workplaces. But then and only then can we actually address and confront this legacy of slavery and dismantle this ugly legacy of slavery.
谢谢。
Thank you very much.
（掌声）