"Five hospitals in Aleppo have been bombed." That was a text message that I received on a dark winter night in November 2016. One of them was a children's hospital run by my Syrian colleagues at the Independent Doctors Association, IDA. It was the sixth time it had been bombed. I watched in horror heartbreaking footage of the head nurse, Malak, in the aftermath of the bombing, grabbing premature babies out of their incubators, desperate to get them to safety, before she broke down in tears. And I felt devastated. Fellow humanitarians and I have spent blood, sweat and tears rebuilding hospitals so that our patients may live, not die.
﻿“五家阿勒波的医院 受到炸弹袭击。” 这是我在2016年11月的 一个冬季的夜晚收到的信息。 其中有一家儿童医院， 是由我在叙利亚的 独立医学学会 (IDA)  的同事运营的。 这已经是它第六次 遭受到炸弹袭击了。 我看了一段在炸弹袭击过后 令人心碎的惊人片段， 护士长马拉克 抱起还在保温箱里的早产儿， 在她痛哭之前， 不顾一切的带着他们 逃到安全的地方。 我非常震惊。 我和一些人道主义人士 投入大量的血、汗、泪， 去重建医院， 让我们的病人活下来， 而并不是死去。
And through this work, I made a discovery. The reason that people survive in crisis is because of the remarkable work of the people in crisis themselves. People survive because of the local doctors, nurses and aid workers who are from the very heart of the affected community, the people who dare to work where others can't or won't. People survive because of people like Malak, who, despite sustaining a severe burns injury in the line of duty, the first thing she did when discharged from hospital was to go back caring for small children. From the rubble of death and devastation arise the most gallant and noble human beings. Local humanitarians are the beacons of light in the darkness of war.
通过这项工作，我有了一个发现。 人们在灾难中生存的原因， 是因为那些身在灾难中的人们 都做了许多了不起的贡献。 人们得救是因为那些 受影响地区中心地带的 当地的医生、 护士还有救援人员， 他们敢在一般人不敢的地方工作。 人们得救是因为有像马拉克的人， 即使在工作中受到严重的伤， 她出院之后做的第一件事是 回去照顾孩子们。 在死亡的废墟中， 诞生了最勇敢最高尚的人们。 当地的人道主义人士， 是战争黑暗中的灯塔。
Now, the data shows that Syrian organizations carry out 75 percent of the humanitarian work in Syria. Yet, they receive 0.3 percent of the Syria aid budget. And what's more, the same is happening across the crises of the world. I have witnessed this reality. It means those with the knowledge, skill and ability to respond on the front lines have little of the necessary tools, equipment and resources they need to save lives. It means groups like IDA don't have funds to rebuild their hospital. The humanitarian system is failing the most vulnerable communities in their darkest hours.
由叙利亚一些组织开展研究表明，  有75%的人道主义人士 在叙利亚工作。 然而，他们仅获得了叙利亚 支助的预算的0.3%。 此外，同样的情况也发生在 其他的遭受灾难的国家中。 我见证过这个事实。 那些有学识、专业技能、能力， 能奔赴救援前线的人， 却没有相应的工具、装备、资源 去拯救生命。 这也意味着像IDA那样的团体， 没有足够的资金去重建他们的医院。 人道主义体制在那些易受攻击的社区 最困难的时候是失败的。
Now, at the time of receiving that message, I was on sabbatical from my clinical work, setting up CanDo, a start-up determined to address this imbalance and enable local responders to provide health care to their war-devastated communities. We had devised a simple model: source trusted and impactful local groups, support their development through an accelerator program and connect them to you via our crowdfunding platform, where they can fund-raise for their health needs. So when IDA asked for help, I decided to launch CanDo seven months early, with very little money, and many people, including myself, thought I had finally gone mad. I wanted to do something that transformed our collective anger into something beautiful.
在我收到那则信息的时候， 那时候正好是公休日， 我正设置着CanDo 。 这是一个能解决这种不平衡的系统， 也能让当地的救援力量 给那些遭受战争破坏的社区 提供医疗帮助。 我们设计了一个简单的模型： 信任的来源以及有影响力的团体， 通过激励的项目支持他们的发展， 然后通过我们众筹平台 将你与它们联系在一起， 在那里，他们可以在平台上 根据他们健康需求募资。 当IDA寻求帮助时， 我决定提前几个月上线CanDo ， 那时我们的资金很少， 许多人，包括我自己在内， 都认为我最终还是疯了。 我想做一些事情， 能将我们愤怒的情感， 转换为美好的事物。
And that's how the People's Convoy was born. It was a global crowdfunding campaign to enable IDA to rebuild a whole new children's hospital, and, if successful, we the people would take the medical equipment all the way from London to the Syria border. And we did it. Thousands of people came together from across the world to achieve a global first: we built the first-ever crowdfunded hospital. The location was carefully chosen by the local experts, IDA, where they knew it would be safe and serve the greatest number of displaced children. IDA was so moved by people's response, they named it "Hope Hospital." It's been open for exactly one year, and they have treated over 15,000 children.
因此“人民的保卫”诞生了。 这是众筹平台的一个项目， 让IDA重建一座新的儿童医院， 如果这个项目成功了， 人们就会把医疗设备 从伦敦运送到叙利亚边境。 而且我们做到了。 成百上千来自世界不同地方的人 聚集在一起， 去创造世界第一： 我们建立了 史上第一座众筹医院。 地点是由当地IDA的专家 精心选择的， 他们知道那比较安全， 而且还能最大化帮助 无家可归的儿童。 大家的响应打动到IDA ， 他们称医院为“希望医院”， 这家医院已经运营了一年了， 为超过15000儿童 提供了治疗服务。
(Applause)
（掌声）
We can provide lifesaving assistance in the most volatile places on earth. The system needs to change, and change starts with us all sharing a new humanitarian vision, one where you, global citizens with skills, expertise and resources, stand together with the local responders; one where we are all humanitarians, putting the necessary resources in the hands of those who need them most and are best placed to use them effectively and efficiently. We need to support the people who are not only saving lives now, but it will also be them stitching their wounded communities back together, once a conflict is over to help them heal. Local humanitarians have the courage to persist, to dust themselves off from the wreckage and to start again, risking their lives to save others. And we can match their courage by not looking away or turning our backs, by helping those who are helping themselves, and together, save more lives.
我们能为地球最不安稳的区域 提供生命救援。 这套制度需要改变， 从改变我们 对新人道主义的看法开始， 此时，你们都是有技能、 专长和资源的地球人， 和当地的救援人员站在一起； 同时，我们还是人道主义人士， 聚集灾区所需的资源， 并将他们分配到最需要的人手中， 以及交到能够最大化利用好 这些资源的人那去。 我们需要支持那些 虽然还没参与救援， 但在冲突结束之后， 为那些受到重创的社区 提供帮助的人。 当地的人道主义人士有勇气去坚持， 有勇气在残骸中站起来 拍去身上的尘土， 有勇气重新冒着生命危险 参与救援行动。 我们也能参与到救援中， 只要我们不选择忽视和不逃避， 而去帮助那些一线救援人员， 与他们一起，就能拯救更多生命。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（掌声）
(Cheers)
（欢呼）
(Applause)
（掌声）
Shoham Arad: Come over here, please. Why are hospitals being bombed?
Shoham Arad：请站到这里来。 为什么医院会发生爆炸？
Rola Hallam: Yeah, good question. So, Physicians for Human Rights have documented nearly 500 attacks on hospitals and over 800 medical personnel who have been killed -- over 90 percent of it by the Syrian regime -- and they say this is part of a systemic targeting and destruction of health care, using it as a weapon of war. And the thing with this is that it's not just our problem, it's yours, too, and everyone's, because A, it exacerbates the refugee situation -- when you have a decimated health care system, it means the next Ebola-type epicenter of disease is going to be Syria; and unfortunately, it sets a very dangerous precedent that makes all of our hospitals anywhere in the world dangerous, and that is now how it should be.
劳拉 · 哈勒姆：嗯，问得好。 根据人权医师组织的记录， 有将近500件 针对医院的攻击， 有超过800名医务人员丧生—— 有超过90%的此类事件 是由叙利亚政治斗争引起的—— 他们说这是系统性的攻击目标 也是摧毁医疗设施的一部分活动， 因为这是战争的一种武器。 这不仅仅是属于我们的问题， 也是你们的，是所有人的， 因为，第一， 当你摧毁医疗系统的时候， 它会造成难民情况的恶化， 这就意味着下一个 埃博拉病毒的病发中心会在叙利亚； 不幸的是， 它会发展成一个非常危险的先例， 让我们在世界各地的医院 陷入危险之中， 也就是现在这样的情况。
SA: So this actually isn't just about money, either, CanDo isn't just about money. Tell me what it means to you that 5,000 people all over the world contributed 350,000 dollars to build Hope Hospital.
所以，这不仅仅是关于钱的问题， CanDo不仅仅是钱的问题。 告诉我，全世界5000人， 捐献了35万美元 来建设“希望医院”意味着什么。
RH: I think the answer is in that word, it's in hope. I think everyone who donated, they had their faith in humanity renewed, knowing there are people like IDA and those doctors, who are exhibiting the absolute best of humanity, and it was like an absolute reciprocation. IDA and these Syrians and many people in places of conflict feel very unheard and unseen. And I think the fact that -- and they see things through the prism of government, so when they see government's not acting, they assume everyone who lives in those places doesn't care. So when they see that display, it really does just renew everyone's faith in humanity.
劳拉 · 哈勒姆：我认为答案 就是这个词：“希望”。 我认为每个捐款的人 都对人性的复兴充满信心， 知道有能将人性最好的一面 展现出来的人存在， 就像IDA， 以及那些医生们一样， 这就像一种绝对的报答。 IDA和这些叙利亚人， 以及那些还在冲突当中的人， 都感觉被忽视了。 我想，事实是—— 他们都是通过政府的棱镜 在看这些事的发展， 因此，当他们看到政府 没有相应行动时， 他们就会猜测 在那居住的每一个人都不关心。 所以当他们看到那种展示， 每个人真的都会重拾对人性的信心。
SA: Thank you, Rola.
SA：谢谢你，劳拉。
RH: Thank you. SA: Thank you for everything.
劳拉：谢谢。 SA：谢谢你所做的一切。
(Applause)
（掌声）