[This talk contains graphic language Viewer discretion is advised] So, this is the first and the last slide each of my 6,400 students over the last 15 years has seen. I do not believe you can build a multibillion-dollar organization unless you are clear on which instinct or organ you are targeting. Our species has a need for a superbeing. Our competitive advantage as a species is our brain. Our brain is robust enough to ask these really difficult questions, but, unfortunately, it doesn't have the processing power to answer them, which creates a need for a superbeing that we can pray to and look to for answers.
﻿【本视频包含粗口 建议酌情观看】 这是在过去15年里 我的6400名学生看到的第一张 也是最后一张幻灯片 我认为你不可能打造一家 价值数十亿美元的企业 除非你知道瞄准的是 哪一种本能或者器官 我们人类对神明是有需求的 而人类这一物种的优势在于大脑 我们的大脑擅长提出 非常难的问题 但不幸的是 它并没有足够强大的 处理能力来回答这些问题 于是就产生了对神明的需求 我们可以向他祈祷 希望得到答案
What is prayer? Sending a query into the universe, and hopefully there's some sort of divine intervention -- we don't need to understand what's going on -- from an all-knowing, all-seeing superbeing that gives us authority that this is the right answer. "Will my kid be all right?" You have your planet of stuff, you have your planet of work, you have your planet of friends. If you have kids, you know that once something comes off the rails with your kids, everything melts, in your universe to the Sun that is your kids. "Will my kid be all right?" "Symptoms and treatment of croup" in the Google query box. One in six queries presented to Google have never been asked before in the history of mankind. What priest, teacher, rabbi, scholar, mentor, boss has so much credibility that one in six questions posed to that person have never been asked before?
什么是祈祷 祈祷就是把疑问送到天上 盼望有某位神明显灵 我们并不需要理解发生了什么 只需要等这位全知全能的神明 告诉我们 这就是权威的正确答案 比如你担心 我的孩子会痊愈吗 你有成堆的东西 有做不完的工作 有一群好朋友 你要是养过孩子就知道 一旦你的孩子脱离正轨 一切都完了 你的孩子就像是太阳 照亮你的世界 我的孩子会痊愈吗 哮吼的症状和治疗 出现在谷歌的搜索框中 谷歌收到的提问中 有六分之一 以前从未被人问过 什么样的神职人员 教师 拉比 学者 导师 老板有如此的威信 以至于六分之一向这个人提出的问题 是从未曾被问过的问题
Google is our modern man's God. Imagine your face and your name above everything you've put into that box, and you're going to realize you trust Google more than any entity in your history.
谷歌是我们现代人的神明
(Laughter)
想象一下你在谷歌搜索框中 输入的各种信息 包括姓名 头像 你会发现 你相信谷歌胜过你生命中的 一切
Let's move further down the torso.
（笑声）
(Laughter)
让我们顺着躯干往下走
One of the other wonderful things about our species is we not only need to be loved, but we need to love others. Children with poor nutrition but a lot of affection have better outcomes than children with good nutrition and poor affection. However, the best signal that you might make it to be part of the number-one fastest growing demographic in the world -- centenarians, people who live to triple digits -- there are three signals. In reverse order: your genetics -- not as important as you'd like to think, so you can continue to treat your body like shit and think, "Oh, Uncle Joe lived to 95, the die have been cast." It's less important than you think. Number two is lifestyle. Don't smoke, don't be obese, and prescreen -- get rid of about two-thirds of early cancers and cardiovascular disease. The number one indicator or signal that you'll make it to triple digits: How many people do you love? Caretaking is the security camera -- we call the low-resolution security camera in our brain -- deciding whether or not you are adding value. Facebook taps into our instinctive need not only to be loved, but to love others, mostly through pictures that create empathy, catalyze and reinforce our relationships.
（笑声）
Let's continue our journey down the torso. Amazon is our consumptive gut. The instinct of more is hardwired into us. The penalty for too little is starvation and malnutrition. Open your cupboards, open your closets, you have 10 to 100x times what you need. Why? Because the penalty for too little is much greater than the penalty for too much. So "more for less" is a business strategy that never goes out of style. It's the strategy of China, it's a the strategy of Walmart, and now it's the strategy of the most successful company in the world, Amazon. You get more for less into your gut; digest, send it to your muscular and skeletal system of consumption.
我们人类还有一件特别美妙的事情 就是我们不仅需要爱 也需要给予爱 营养不良但是 获得很多关爱的孩子 会比那些营养均衡 却缺乏关爱的孩子更能健康成长 目前世界人口老龄化速度飞快 而要想判断你是否 也能长命百岁 有三个重要的信号 按从弱到强排 你的基因 并没有你想象的那么重要 所以你可以继续糟蹋自己的身体 并且想着 乔伊大叔活到了95岁 死亡是注定的 基因并没有你想象的那么重要 第二个是生活方式 不抽烟 控制体重 定期体检 可以避免患上三分之二的早期癌症 和心血管疾病 而使你能长命百岁的头号指标 是你关爱的人有多少 关爱好比监控摄像头 我们称之为大脑里的 低分辨率监控摄像头 决定你是否能多活几年 我们不只是需要爱 也需要关爱他人 脸书正是利用了 我们这一本能 主要是通过照片引起我们的共鸣 催生和巩固我们之间的关系
Moving further, once we know we will survive, the basic instinct, we move to the second most powerful instinct, and that is to spread and select the strongest, smartest and fastest seed to the four corners of the earth, or pick the best seed. This is not a timepiece. I haven't wound it in five years. It's my vain attempt to say to people, "If you mate with me, your children are more likely to survive than if you mate with someone wearing a Swatch watch."
让我们继续顺着躯干往下 亚马逊直击我们的消费本能 渴望拥有更多是我们的内在本性 拥有太少会造成饥饿和营养不良 打开你的食橱和衣柜 你会发现拥有的 是你需要的十倍乃至百倍 为什么 因为拥有太少比拥有更多 得到的不良影响更严重 因此 更多商品更低价格 是个永不过时的商业策略 中国奉行这一策略 沃尔玛奉行这一策略 而如今世界上最成功的企业 亚马逊 也奉行了这一策略 你把 更多商品更低价格 变成直觉 将之消化并输送到你那控制消费的 肌肉和骨骼系统中去
(Laughter)
更进一步 一旦我们解决了生存问题 我们便开始考虑第二强大的本能 即挑选最强大 最聪明 最迅速的种子 四海播种 繁衍后代 或是选取最好的种子 我手上这只表 不是用来看时间的 我有五年没给表上发条了 这只是我吸引异性的徒劳尝试 和与戴着斯沃琪手表的人睡相比 你和我睡生的孩子更有可能存活下来
The key to business is tapping into the irrational organs. "Irrational" is Harvard Business School's and New York Business School's term for fat profit margins and shareholder value. "High-caloric paste for your children." No? You love your choosy mom. Why choosy moms choose Jif: you love your kids more. The greatest algorithm for shareholder creation from World War II to the advent of Google was taking an average product and appealing to people's hearts. You're a better a mom, a better person, a better patriot if you buy this average soap versus this average soap. Now, the number one algorithm for shareholder value isn't technology. Look at the Forbes 400. Take out inherited wealth, take out finance. The number one source of wealth creation: appealing to your reproductive organs. The Lauders; the number one wealthiest man in Europe, LVMH. Numbers two and three: H&amp;M and Inditex. You want to target the most irrational organs for shareholder value.
（笑声）
As a result, these four companies -- Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google -- have disarticulated who we are. God, love, consumption, sex. The proportion in your approach to those things is who you are, and they have reassembled who we are in the form of for-profit companies. At the end of the Great Recession, the market capitalization of these companies was equivalent to the GDP of Niger. Now it is equivalent to the GDP of India, having blown past Russia and Canada in '13 and '14. There are only five nations that have a GDP greater than the combined market capitalization of these four firms.
商业的核心在于利用 人类不理性的一面 对哈佛商学院或者 纽约商学院的人来说 不理性 基本就是丰厚利润 和超高股价的代名词 （广告主题）给孩子高卡路里的食物吧 不需要吗？ 你的孩子爱挑剔的妈妈 为什么挑剔的妈妈选择Jif花生酱 因为你比别人更爱你的孩子 从第二次世界大战起 到谷歌诞生以前 最伟大的创造股价的算法 就是用煽情的营销手段 推销普通的产品 如果你是个好妈妈 好公民 就请你买这块很普通的香皂 而不是那块很普通的香皂 如今 创造股价的 头号算法不是科技 来看看福布斯400富豪榜 刨掉那些富二代 刨掉那些搞金融的 创造财富的头号秘诀便是 让消费者用下半身思考 兰黛家族 欧洲 首富路威酩轩集团 H&amp;M服饰和Inditex分居二三位 要想创造股价你就得 瞄准最不理性的器官
Something is happening, though. The conversation just a year ago was, which CEO was more Jesus-like? Who was running for president? Now the worm has turned. Everything they're doing is bothering us. We're worried they're tax avoiders. Walmart, since the Great Recession, has paid 64 billion dollars in corporate income tax; Amazon has paid 1.4. How do we pay our firefighters, our soldiers and our social workers if the most successful companies in the world don't pay their fair share? Pretty easy. That means the less successful companies have to pay more than their fair share. Alexa, is this a good thing? This is despite that fact --
结果这四大公司  苹果 亚马逊 脸书和谷歌 便联手主宰了我们的生活 神明 爱情 消费 性欲 每个人的生活中这四项 占据的比例各不相同 而现在它们化身四家营利性公司 重新组成了我们的生活内容 在经济大衰退末期 这些公司的市场资本总额 与尼日利亚的GDP相当 而现在它相当于印度的GDP 分别在2013年和2014年 超过了俄罗斯和加拿大 只有五个国家的GDP 超过了这四家公司市场资本总额的 总和
(Laughter)
然而 有些事正在发生 仅一年前 人们还在谈论 哪个CEO更像拯救世人的上帝 谁在竞选总统 如今情形大变 它们做的事情件件恼人 我们担心它们逃税 自经济大衰退开始 沃尔玛共缴纳了 640亿美元的公司所得税 而亚马逊才缴纳了14亿 如果这些世界上最成功的公司 不缴纳它们应缴的合理税款 我们用什么来给我们的消防员  战士和社工们发薪水 很简单 那意味着不那么成功的公司 需要多交税 （假装对亚马逊智能语音助理） Alexa 这是好事吗 尽管实际情况是
This is despite the fact that Amazon has added the entire market capitalization of Walmart to its market cap in the last 19 months.
（大笑）
Whose fault is it? It's our fault. We're electing regulators who don't have the backbone to actually go after these companies. Facebook lies to EU regulators and says, "It would be impossible for us to share the data between our core platform and our proposed acquisition of WhatsApp. Approve the merger." They approve the merger and then -- spoiler alert! -- they figure it out. And the EU says, "I feel lied to. We're fining you 120 billion dollars," about .6 percent of the acquisition price of 19 billion dollars. If Mark Zuckerberg could take out an insurance policy that the acquisition would go through for .6 percent, wouldn't he do it?
尽管实际情况是 在过去19个月里  亚马逊的市值增加的数额 是整个沃尔玛的市场资本总额
Anticompetitive behavior. A two-and-a-half-billion-dollar fine, three billion of the cash flow, three percent of the cash on Google's balance sheet. We are telling these companies, "The smart thing to do, the shareholder-driven thing to do, is to lie and to cheat." We are issuing 25-cent parking tickets on a meter that costs 100 dollars an hour. The smart thing to do is lie. Job destruction! Amazon only needs one person for two at Macy's. If they grow their business 20 billion dollars this year, which they will, we will lose 53,000 cashiers and clerks. This is nothing unusual; this has happened all through our economy, we've just never seen companies this good at it. That's one Yankee Stadium of workers. It's even worse in media. If Facebook and Google grow their businesses 22 billion dollars this year, which they will, we're going to lose approximately 150,000 creative directors, planners and copywriters. Or we can fill up two-and-a-half Yankee Stadiums and say, "You are out of work, courtesy of Amazon."
这是谁的错 是我们的错 我们选出的监管者 腰杆儿不够硬 管不了这些公司 脸书向欧盟监管部门撒谎说 我们不可能在核心平台 和提议并购的WhatsApp 之间分享数据 请批准这项并购 欧盟批准了并购 紧接着 剧透预警在此 他们回过味儿来了 欧盟说 我觉得你们撒了谎 我们要罚你1.2亿美金 而并购花了190亿美金 罚款只占了0.6% 如果 马克·扎克伯格 能购买一份保险 花0.6％的保费确保并购成功实现 他会不那么做吗
We now get the majority of our news from our social media feeds, and the majority of our news coming off of social media feeds is ... fake news.
而谷歌的垄断行为 被欧盟罚款25亿美金 30亿的现金流 只占了谷歌资产负债表上的3%。 我们正告诉这些公司 要想把股价拉上去 就得学机灵点儿 该撒谎就得撒谎 我们使用一个每小时费用为 100美金的仪器来开 25美分的停车罚款单 聪明的做法就是撒谎 还有就业领域的灾难 亚马逊所需的员工数量 只是梅西百货公司的一半 如果今年他们的业务 增长200亿美元 这应该没什么难度 那么我们将失去53000名 收银员和百货公司职员 这毫不罕见 这种情况贯穿我们的整个经济 我们只是从没看到 如此擅长于此的公司 那些失业的工人可以 装满整个洋基体育馆 媒体行业更糟 如果脸书和谷歌的业务 今年能增长220亿美金 他们也能做到 我们将失去近15万的创意总监 策划和文案 我们用他们装满 两个半的洋基体育馆 告诉他们 拜亚马逊所赐 你们失业了
(Laughter)
目前我们获得的绝大部分新闻 是来自社交媒体推送 而我们从社交媒体推送 获得的新闻多数是 虚假新闻
I am not allowed to be political or use curse words, or talk about religion in class, so I can definitely not say, "Zuckerberg has become Putin's bitch." I definitely cannot say that.
（大笑）
(Laughter)
我不能在课堂上谈政治 或说话带脏字 或谈论宗教 所以我绝不能说 扎克伯格成了普京的小贱人 我真是 非常不敢说 啊
Their defense: "Facebook is not a media company; it's a technology company." You create original content, you pay sports leagues to give you original content, you run advertising against it -- boom! -- you're a media company. Just in the last few days, Sheryl Sandberg has repeated this lie, that "We are not a media company." Facebook has openly embraced the margins of celebrity and the influence of a media company yet seems to be allergic to the responsibilities of a media company. Imagine McDonald's. We find 80 percent of their beef is fake, and it's giving us encephalitis, and we're making terrible decisions. And we say, "McDonald's, we're pissed off!" And they say, "Wait, wait -- we're not a fast-food restaurant, we're a fast-food platform."
（大笑）
(Laughter)
他们反驳说 脸书不是一个媒体公司 是个科技公司 你创建原创内容 你付钱给各大体育联赛 让他们提供原创内容 你再在这些内容上投放广告  那你的确就是媒体公司 就在几天前 雪莉桑德伯格 重申了这个谎言 我们不是媒体公司 脸书公开地通过名人效应 和媒体公司的影响力赚取价值 然而似乎却对媒体公司的责任 一事极其反感 想想麦当劳吧 我们发现他们的牛肉 有80%都是假的 会让人们患上脑炎 而我们却做出了糟糕的决定 说 麦当劳 我们很生气 他们说 且慢 且慢 我们不生产快餐 我们只是快餐的搬运工
These companies and CEOs wrap themselves in a neon-blue pink rainbow and blue blanket to create an illusionist trick from their behavior each day, which is more indicative of the spawn of Darth Vader and Ayn Rand. Why? Because we as progressives are seen as nice but weak. If Sheryl Sandberg had written a book on gun rights or on the pro-life movement, would they be flying Sheryl to Cannes? No. And I'm not doubting their progressive values, but it foots to shareholder value, because we as progressives are seen as weak. They're so nice -- remember Microsoft? They didn't seem as nice, and regulators stepped in much earlier than the regulators now, who would never step in on those nice, nice people.
（大笑）
I'm about to get on a plane tonight, and I'm going to have a guy named Roy from TSA molest me. If I am suspected of a DUI on the way home, I can have blood taken from my person. But wait! Don't tap into the iPhone -- it's sacred. This is our new cross. It shouldn't be the iPhone X, it should be called the "iPhone Cross." We have our religion; it's Apple. Our Jesus Christ is Steve Jobs, and we've decided this is holier than our person, our house or our computer. We have become totally out of control with the gross idolatry of innovation and of youth. We no longer worship at the altar of character, of kindness, but of innovation and people who create shareholder value.
这些公司和它们的CEO们把自己 包装成神仙模样 披着艳丽的彩虹下凡人间 用魔术般的幻像 掩盖他们的日常行径 星球大战里的黑武士 下凡时也不过如此 为什么 因为我们越来越 被看作软弱的老好人 如果 雪莉·桑德伯格 写了 一本关于公民持枪权利 或反堕胎运动的书 那么她还会被邀请飞去戛纳吗 不会的 我并不怀疑他们渐进的价值观 但他们的价值观核心都是股价 因为我们的形象越来越软弱 而他们却一脸无辜 记得微软吗 他们的公众形象 包装得似乎不太好 所以那时监管部门介入很快 而如今的监管部门绝不会 去干涉那些善意的公众楷模
Amazon has become so powerful in the marketplace, it can conduct Jedi mind tricks. It can begin damaging other industries just by looking at them. Nike announces they're distributing on Amazon, their stock goes up, every other footwear stock goes down. When Amazon stock goes up, the rest of retail stocks go down, because they assume what's good for Amazon is bad for everybody else. They cut the cost on salmon 33 percent when they acquired Whole Foods. In between the time they announced the acquisition of Whole Foods and when it closed, Kroger, the largest pure-play grocer in America, shed a third of its value, because Amazon purchased a grocer one-eleventh the size of Kroger.
今晚我要乘坐飞机 如果有人怀疑我酒驾回家 运输管理局会派一个 叫罗伊的人骚扰我 可能还需要对我抽血检查 但且慢 禁止动iPhone 它可是神圣不可侵犯的 这是我们的新十字架 新款苹果手机与其说是iPhone X 不如说是名副其实的 iPhone十字架 我们有至高无上的宗教 苹果神教 我们的教主是 史蒂夫·乔布斯 我们视其为至高神圣 超过了我们的房屋和电脑 甚至超过了我们自己 我们完全失控了 迷失在对于创新和 青春的盲目崇拜中 我们不再追寻勇气 仁爱 而是一味追寻创新 崇拜那些创造股价的人
I got very lucky. I predicted the acquisition of Whole Foods by Amazon the week before it happened. This is me boasting; I said this publicly in the media. This was the largest acquisition in their history, they'd never made an acquisition over a billion, and people asked, "How did you know this?" So I'm letting this very impressive audience in on the secret. How did I know this? I'm going to tell you how I knew. I bark at Alexa all day long and try to figure out what's going on.
亚马逊在市场上变得强大非凡 它对我们进行精神控制 浏览它们就已经开始 破坏其他行业了 耐克宣布 他们开始在亚马逊上 销售 股价便升上去了 所有其他的鞋类企业股价下跌 每当亚马逊的股价上升  其他零售商的股价便会下跌 因为股民相信所有对于亚马逊好的 东西对于其他人都是坏的 当并购全食超市的时候  鮭魚的成本被削减了33% 在他们宣布并购全食超市开始  到并购结束期间 美国最大的食品销售 专营公司克罗格 股价跌了1/3 就是因为亚马逊吃下了这家 规模占克罗格1/11的食品销售商
(Scott Galloway) Alexa, buy whole milk.
我非常幸运 我预测到了亚马逊 对全食超市的收购 就在收购发生前的那周 我在媒体上公开扬言 这是他们历史上最大规模的并购 他们之前从没有做过 十亿美元以上的并购 人们问我 你是怎么知道的 我现在就向各位了不起的观众来揭秘 我是怎么知道的 让我来告诉你我是怎么知道的 我整天的对着Alexa大吼大叫 想知道这是怎么一回事
(Alexa) I couldn't find anything for whole milk, so I've added whole milk to your shopping list.
(演讲者) Alexa 买点儿全脂牛奶
SG: Then I asked,
(Alexa) 我找不到 全脂牛奶 的搜索结果 所以我把全脂牛奶 加进了你的购物清单
(SG) Alexa, buy organic foods.
演讲者：接下来我问
(Alexa) The top search result for organic food is Plum Organics baby food, banana and pumpkin, 12-pack of four ounces each. It's 15 dollars total. Would you like to buy it?
(演讲者) Alexa 买点儿有机食物
SG: And then, as often happens at my age, I got confused.
(Alexa) 有机食物的搜索结果首位 是Plum Organics婴儿食品 香蕉和南瓜口味 12包装 每包4盎司 共15美元 你想要买吗
(SG) Alexa, buy whole foods.
演讲者：然后 就像到我 这个年龄的人一样 我被弄糊涂了
(Alexa) I have purchased the outstanding stock of Whole Foods Incorporated at 42 dollars per share. I have charged 13.7 billion to your American Express card.
(演讲者) Alexa 买些 全食
(Laughter)
(Alexa) 我已经购入了 全食超市未售出的股票 每股价格为42美元 我已从你的美国运通卡上 划掉了137亿美金
SG: I thought that'd be funnier.
（大笑）
(Laughter)
演讲者：大伙儿笑点很高啊
We've personified these companies, and just as when you're really angry over every little thing someone does in your life and relationships, you've got to ask yourself, "What's going on here? Why are we so disappointed in technology?" I believe it's because the ratio of one-percent pursuit of shareholder value and 99 percent the betterment of humanity that technology used to play has been flipped, and now we're totally focused on shareholder value instead of humanity.
（大笑）
One hundred thousand people came together for the Manhattan Project and literally saved the world. Technology saved the world. My mother was a four-year-old Jew living in London at the outset of the war. If we had not won the footrace towards splitting the atom, would she have survived? It's unlikely. Twenty-five years later, the most impressive accomplishment, arguably, ever in all of humankind: put a man on the moon. Four hundred thirty thousand Canadians, British and Americans came together, again, with very basic technology, and put a man on the moon.
我们把这些公司拟人化了 当你对人生中发生的种种小事 人际关系中的种种波澜 都气愤不已的时候 你需要问你自己 这到底是怎么回事儿 为什么我们对科技如此失望 我认为那是因为过去发展科技 99%是为人类造福 只有1%是为了挣钱 而这二者的比例 如今却颠倒了 如今我们全身心地关心股价 没人关注人道主义
Now we have the 700,000 best and brightest, and these are the best and brightest from the four corners of the earth. They are literally playing with lasers relative to slingshots, relative to the squirt gun. They have the GDP of India to work at. And after studying these companies for 10 years, I know what their mission is. Is it to organize the world's information? Is it to connect us? Is it to create greater comity of man? It isn't. I know why we have brought together -- I know that the greatest collection of IQ capital and creativity, that their sole mission is: to sell another fucking Nissan.
10万人携手参与了曼哈顿项目 名副其实地拯救了世界 是科技拯救了世界 我的妈妈是犹太人 战争爆发的 时候她才四岁 住在伦敦 如果我们没有成功造出原子弹 她能活下来吗 不太可能 25年之后 对于全人类可能是 最令人瞩目的成就 把人类送上月球 43万名加拿大人 英国人 和美国人联手 再一次用非常基础的科技 把人送上了月球
My name is Scott Galloway, I teach at NYU, and I appreciate your time.
如今我们有70万人才 他们来自五湖四海 各个才华出众 和前人手中的弹弓和水枪比起来 他们玩的可是激光大炮 他们的工作目标相当于印度的GDP 研究这些公司10年之后 我终于看清了他们的真面目 是将全世界信息组织整理起来吗 是让人和人加强交流吗 是为建立人与人间更多的尊敬友爱吗 并非如此 我知道为何我们汇聚在此 这些公司聚集了最伟大的 高智商创新人才 可唯一的目标却是 多特么卖出一辆尼桑车
(Applause)
我是Scott Galloway  在纽约大学任教 谢谢各位的时间
Chris Anderson: Not planned, but you prompted some questions in me, Scott.
（掌声）
(Laughter)
Chris Anderson： 我没有准备 但你的演讲引起了 我的几个问题 Scott
That was a spectacular rant.
（大笑）
SG: Is this like Letterman? When you do well, he calls you onto the couch?
这场激情澎湃的演说令人惊叹
CA: No, no, you're going to the heart of the conversation right now. Everyone's aware that after years of worshipping Silicon Valley, suddenly the worm has turned and in such a big way. To some people here, it will just feel like you're piling on, you're kicking the kids who've already been kicked to pieces anyway. Don't you feel any empathy for them at all?
演讲者：像Letterman是吗 (午夜的幽默谈话节目主持人） 你做的好 他就让你坐上沙发
SG: None whatsoever. Look, this is the issue: it's not their fault, it's our fault. They're for-profit companies. They're not concerned with the condition of our souls. They're not going to take care of us when we get older. We have set up a society that values shareholder value over everything, and they're doing what they're supposed to be doing. But we need to elect people, and we need to force ourselves to force them to be subject to the same scrutiny that the rest of business endures, full stop.
CA：不是 不是  现在谈话的核心部分才开始 每个人都知道 多年来 硅谷一直令人极其崇拜 现在突然风向转了 而且转变很大 对于某些观众而言  感觉你可能言过其实 这些公司已经被骂得体无完肤 你却还要再指责他们 难道你对它们没有感到一丝同情吗
CA: There's another narrative that is arguably equally consistent with the facts, which is that there actually is good intent in much of the leadership -- I won't say everyone, necessarily -- many of the employees. We all know people who work in those companies, and they still are pretty convincing that their mission is to -- so, the alternative narrative is that there have been unintended consequences here, that the technologies that we're unleashing, the algorithms, that we're attempting to personalize the internet, for example, have A, resulted in weird effects like filter bubbles that we weren't expecting; and B, made themselves vulnerable to weird things like -- oh, I don't know, Russian hackers creating accounts and doing things that we didn't expect. Isn't the unintended consequence a possibility here?
SG：丝毫没有 问题是这样： 这不是他们的错误  而是我们的错误 他们是逐利的公司 他们不关心我们的灵魂 也不会帮我们养老 我们创建了新的社会风气 重视股价胜过一切 他们不过是做了该做的而已 但我们需要选拔一批监管者 并狠下决心去强迫他们 对所有公司一视同仁 严格监察 没得商量
SG: I don't think -- I'm pretty sure, statistically, they're no less or better people than any other organization that has 100,000 or more people. I don't think they're bad people. As a matter of fact, I would argue that there's a lot of very civic-minded, decent leadership. But this is the issue: when you control 90 percent points of share in a market, search, that is now bigger than the entire advertising market of any nation, and you're primarily compensated and trying to develop economic security for you and the families of your employees, to increase that market share, you can't help but leverage all the power at your disposal. And that is the basis for regulation, and it's the basis for the truism throughout history that power corrupts. They're not bad people; we've just let them get out of control.
CA：你说的还有另一点 是否与事实相符也值得商榷 那就是大多数领导者的意图 实际上都是好的 我不能一概而论说每个人如此 但很多的员工都是好的 我们都认识在这些公司工作的人 他们仍然会让人相信 他们的使命是 另一种说法可以是 无心的后果 突然迸发的这些科技力量 比如 我们试图将互联网 拟人化的算法 例如 A 导致了我们没有预料到的奇怪后果 比如过滤气泡 (个人化资料过滤) 和B 令他们很容易被奇怪的 事情入侵 例如 我也不确定 比如 俄罗斯黑客建立帐号 做些我们意料之外的事情 无心的结果会不会是一种可能性呢
CA: So maybe the case is slightly overstated? I know at least a bit -- Larry Page, for example, Jeff Bezos -- I don't actually believe they wake up thinking, "I've got to sell a fucking Nissan." I don't think they think that. I think they are trying to build something cool, and are probably, in moments of reflection, as horrified that some of the things that have happened as we might be. So is there a different way of framing this, to say that when your model is advertising, that there are dangers there that you have to take on more explicitly?
SG：我不这么认为 我挺确定从统计数据来看 他们和任何人数 不少于10万的大公司 情况都差不多 我不认为他们是坏人 其实我得说 以人为本的好领导也不在少数 但问题是 当你控制了搜索业务90%的市场份额 如今这比任何国家的 整个广告市场都大 而你在财务方面获益主要是 通过增大市场份额 你才能为雇员及其家庭 获得经济保障 你不得不把所有 可用的权力发挥到极致 而这是需要监管的基础 也印证了一条贯穿历史 不言自明的真理 权利导致腐败 他们不是坏人 只是我们让他们变成了 脱缰之马 完全不受控制
SG: I think it's very difficult to set an organization up as we do, to pursue shareholder value above all else. They're not non-profits. The reason people go to work there is they want to create economic security for them and their families, mostly first and foremost. And when you get to a point where you control so much economic power, you use all the weapons at your disposal. I don't think they're bad people, but I think the role of government and the role of us as consumers and people who elect our officials is to ensure that there are some checks here. And we have given them the mother of all hall passes because we find them just so fascinating.
CA： 所以实情可能被说得有 一点儿言过其实了对吗 我认为至少有一点 例如 拉里·佩奇 杰弗里·贝索斯 我其实并不认为他们 一起床就想着 我特么要卖掉一辆尼桑车 我不认为他们这样想 我想他们在试着做些很酷的事情 有时他们可能也会反思 也许像我们一样 被实际发生的事吓到了 所以是否有另一种方法 来解释这件事 比如说你是做广告业务的 是否有需要你更直接承担的危险
CA: Scott, eloquently put, spectacularly put. Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Larry Page, Tim Cook, if you're watching, you're welcome to come and make the counterargument as well. Scott, thank you so much.
SG：我认为我们 这样做很难建立一个 追逐股价胜于其他一切的企业 他们毕竟是营利企业 人们来这儿工作 就是想为自己和家人 挣得一份稳定的收入 这是大前提 也是最重要的原因 当你终于掌控了巨大的经济权力时 你将所有的武器用到极致 我不认为他们是坏人 但我认为我们不仅是消费者 也是选民 自当和政府一道 扮演好监管者的角色 确保这些公司能受到监管 我们给了他们免检王牌 因为我们觉得他们太有吸引力了
SG: Thanks very much.
CA：Scott 非常精彩的阐述 马克·扎克伯格 杰弗里·贝索斯 拉里·佩奇 蒂姆·库克 如果你们看到了这个演讲 欢迎来做一场反方辩论 Scott 非常感谢
(Applause)
SG：非常感谢 （掌声）