Many people face the news each morning with trepidation and dread. Every day, we read of shootings, inequality, pollution, dictatorship, war and the spread of nuclear weapons. These are some of the reasons that 2016 was called the "Worst. Year. Ever." Until 2017 claimed that record --
﻿每天早晨，很多人都面对着 充满不安和恐惧的新闻。 每天，我们都会读到枪击案， 不平等、污染、独裁统治、 战争和核武器扩散的消息。 这些是 2016 年 被称为“史上最糟糕的一年”的部分原因。 直到 2017 年再创新高——
(Laughter)
（笑声）
and left many people longing for earlier decades, when the world seemed safer, cleaner and more equal.
这使得很多人不禁 怀念几十年前的日子， 那时世界看来更安全，清净和平等。
But is this a sensible way to understand the human condition in the 21st century? As Franklin Pierce Adams pointed out, "Nothing is more responsible for the good old days than a bad memory."
但这是理解 21 世纪人类生存状况的 合理方式吗？ 就如富兰克林 · 皮尔斯 · 亚当斯指出的那样： “怀念往昔美好时光的人的记忆 一定糟透了。“
(Laughter)
（笑声）
You can always fool yourself into seeing a decline if you compare bleeding headlines of the present with rose-tinted images of the past. What does the trajectory of the world look like when we measure well-being over time using a constant yardstick?
如果你拿现在的新闻头条 跟过去玫瑰色的图片相对比， 你就总会以为自己 正面临着世风日下的局面。 当我们用恒定的尺度 来衡量幸福感时， 世界的变化轨迹会是什么样呢？
Let's compare the most recent data on the present with the same measures 30 years ago. Last year, Americans killed each other at a rate of 5.3 per hundred thousand, had seven percent of their citizens in poverty and emitted 21 million tons of particulate matter and four million tons of sulfur dioxide. But 30 years ago, the homicide rate was 8.5 per hundred thousand, poverty rate was 12 percent and we emitted 35 million tons of particulate matter and 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide.
让我们用同样的方法 来比较最新的数据 和 30 年前的数据。 去年，美国每 10 万人中有  5.3 人死于凶杀， 7%的贫困人口， 排放了 2100 万吨的微粒物质， 以及 400 万吨的二氧化硫。 而 30 年前，每 10 万人中 有 8.5 人死于凶杀， 贫困率为 12 %， 我们排放了 3500 万吨的微粒物质， 以及 2000 万吨的二氧化硫。
What about the world as a whole? Last year, the world had 12 ongoing wars, 60 autocracies, 10 percent of the world population in extreme poverty and more than 10,000 nuclear weapons. But 30 years ago, there were 23 wars, 85 autocracies, 37 percent of the world population in extreme poverty and more than 60,000 nuclear weapons. True, last year was a terrible year for terrorism in Western Europe, with 238 deaths, but 1988 was worse with 440 deaths.
那么世界整体情况如何？ 去年，全球共有 12 场战争， 60 个独裁政权， 10% 的极端贫穷人口 以及超过 1 万件核武器。 而 30 年前，一共有 23 场战争， 85 个独裁政权， 37 %的全球人口极度贫困 以及超过 6 万件核武器。 的确，去年是西欧恐怖主义 十分猖獗的一年， 共造成 238 人死亡， 但 1988 年更糟，有 440 人死亡。
What's going on? Was 1988 a particularly bad year? Or are these improvements a sign that the world, for all its struggles, gets better over time? Might we even invoke the admittedly old-fashioned notion of progress? To do so is to court a certain amount of derision, because I have found that intellectuals hate progress.
这是怎么回事？ 1988 年是尤其糟糕的一年吗？ 或者，这是世界进步的迹象， 在挣扎中，越变越好？ 我们是否可以援引 公认的过时了进步观念？ 这样做会招来一些嘲笑， 因为我发现知识分子憎恨进步。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
And intellectuals who call themselves progressive really hate progress.
自称进步的知识分子真的讨厌进步。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
Now, it's not that they hate the fruits of progress, mind you. Most academics and pundits would rather have their surgery with anesthesia than without it. It's the idea of progress that rankles the chattering class. If you believe that humans can improve their lot, I have been told, that means that you have a blind faith and a quasi-religious belief in the outmoded superstition and the false promise of the myth of the onward march of inexorable progress. You are a cheerleader for vulgar American can-doism, with the rah-rah spirit of boardroom ideology, Silicon Valley and the Chamber of Commerce. You are a practitioner of Whig history, a naive optimist, a Pollyanna and, of course, a Pangloss, alluding to the Voltaire character who declared, "All is for the best in the best of all possible worlds."
请注意，我并不是说 他们讨厌进步的成果。 大多数学者和专家 做手术时还是会选择用麻醉， 而非什么都不用。 让这些喋喋不休的人不满的， 是进步的观点。 如果你相信人类可以改善命运， 正如我被告知的那样， 这意味着你有着盲目的信仰， 一种类似宗教的落后迷信， 相信对不可阻挡的进步神话的 虚假承诺。 你是粗俗的美国佬的啦啦队长， 拥有董事会的意识形态，硅谷和商会的 拉拉队精神。 你是辉格历史的实践者， 一位天真的乐观主义者， 你就像是潘格劳斯， 伏尔泰小说里的角色，曾宣称： “在理想的最美好的世界中， 一切都是为最美好的目的而设。“
Well, Professor Pangloss, as it happens, was a pessimist. A true optimist believes there can be much better worlds than the one we have today. But all of this is irrelevant, because the question of whether progress has taken place is not a matter of faith or having an optimistic temperament or seeing the glass as half full. It's a testable hypothesis. For all their differences, people largely agree on what goes into human well-being: life, health, sustenance, prosperity, peace, freedom, safety, knowledge, leisure, happiness. All of these things can be measured. If they have improved over time, that, I submit, is progress.
好吧，潘格劳斯教授 碰巧是个悲观主义者。 一个真正的乐观主义者相信 存在着比我们今天拥有的 更好的世界。 但所有这些都无关紧要， 因为进步是否发生 与信念无关， 也不取决于是否拥有乐观气质， 或是看到了半杯水（而不是半个空杯子）。 而是一个可检验的假设。 尽管各有分歧， 在很大程度上人们会一致认为， 人类的幸福包括以下因素： 生命、健康、生计、繁荣、 和平、自由、安全、知识、 休闲、快乐。 这些东西都可以测量。 如果它们随时间得到改善， 我认为就是进步。
Let's go to the data, beginning with the most precious thing of all, life. For most of human history, life expectancy at birth was around 30. Today, worldwide, it is more than 70, and in the developed parts of the world, more than 80. 250 years ago, in the richest countries of the world, a third of the children did not live to see their fifth birthday, before the risk was brought down a hundredfold. Today, that fate befalls less than six percent of children in the poorest countries of the world. Famine is one of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. It could bring devastation to any part of the world. Today, famine has been banished to the most remote and war-ravaged regions. 200 years ago, 90 percent of the world's population subsisted in extreme poverty. Today, fewer than 10 percent of people do. For most of human history, the powerful states and empires were pretty much always at war with each other, and peace was a mere interlude between wars. Today, they are never at war with each other. The last great power war pitted the United States against China 65 years ago. More recently, wars of all kinds have become fewer and less deadly. The annual rate of war has fallen from about 22 per hundred thousand per year in the early '50s to 1.2 today. Democracy has suffered obvious setbacks in Venezuela, in Russia, in Turkey and is threatened by the rise of authoritarian populism in Eastern Europe and the United States. Yet the world has never been more democratic than it has been in the past decade, with two-thirds of the world's people living in democracies. Homicide rates plunge whenever anarchy and the code of vendetta are replaced by the rule of law. It happened when feudal Europe was brought under the control of centralized kingdoms, so that today a Western European has 1/35th the chance of being murdered compared to his medieval ancestors. It happened again in colonial New England, in the American Wild West when the sheriffs moved to town, and in Mexico.
让我们看看数据。 从最珍贵的东西开始，生命。 在人类历史长河的大部分时期中， 预期寿命为 30 岁上下。 今天，全球平均寿命超过了70岁， 在发达国家， 则超过80岁。 250 年前，在全球最富有的国家， 在风险被降低一百倍之前， 1/3 的儿童活不到五岁。 今天，婴儿死亡率在全球最贫穷的国家 也已经降低到 6 %以下。 饥荒是世界末日的四骑士之一。 它可以给世界上任何地方带来毁灭。 今天，饥荒已经被驱逐至 最偏远和饱受战争蹂躏的地区。 200 年前，90 %的世界人口 处于极端贫困。 今天只有不到 10 %的人如此。 在人类大部分的历史中， 强大的国家和帝国 总是彼此交战， 而和平只是战争之间的插曲。 今天，他们不再彼此开战。 上一场大国之间的战争 发生在 65 年前的中国和美国。 最近，各种各样的战争发生得 越来越少，伤亡人数也有所下降。 每年的战争死亡率 从 50 年代的 10 万分之 22 下降至今天的 10 万分之 1.2。 民主在委内瑞拉，俄罗斯，土耳其 遭受了明显的挫折， 并在东欧和美国受到了 来自独裁民粹主义崛起的威胁。 但是相比过去的时代， 世界从来没有如此民主， 全球 2/3 的人口生活在民主国家。 每当无政府状态和仇杀行为 被法治取代时， 凶杀犯罪率就会下降。 这发生在封建的欧洲 被中央王国控制时， 所以今天西欧人 被谋杀的几率是 他们中世纪祖先的 1/35。 这也发生在新英格兰的殖民地， 治安官进驻后的美国西部小镇， 以及墨西哥等地。 我们的确在各个方面 都变得更安全了。
Indeed, we've become safer in just about every way. Over the last century, we've become 96 percent less likely to be killed in a car crash, 88 percent less likely to be mowed down on the sidewalk, 99 percent less likely to die in a plane crash, 95 percent less likely to be killed on the job, 89 percent less likely to be killed by an act of God, such as a drought, flood, wildfire, storm, volcano, landslide, earthquake or meteor strike, presumably not because God has become less angry with us but because of improvements in the resilience of our infrastructure. And what about the quintessential act of God, the projectile hurled by Zeus himself? Yes, we are 97 percent less likely to be killed by a bolt of lightning.
上个世纪以来， 我们死于交通事故的概率 降低了 96 %。 在人行道上被撞倒的概率 降低了88 %。 飞机事故死亡率下降了 99 %。 因公殉职的概率也降低了 95 %。 死于大自然因素的 概率也降低了 89 %， 比如干旱，洪水，野火，风暴，火山， 山崩、地震或流星撞击。 应该不是因为 上帝对我们不再那么生气了， 而是因为我们的基础设施的 应变能力提高了。 那么，典型的天灾， 宙斯自己投掷的炮弹呢？ 没错，我们被闪电击中的 概率降低了 97 %。
Before the 17th century, no more than 15 percent of Europeans could read or write. Europe and the United States achieved universal literacy by the middle of the 20th century, and the rest of the world is catching up. Today, more than 90 percent of the world's population under the age of 25 can read and write. In the 19th century, Westerners worked more than 60 hours per week. Today, they work fewer than 40. Thanks to the universal penetration of running water and electricity in the developed world and the widespread adoption of washing machines, vacuum cleaners, refrigerators, dishwashers, stoves and microwaves, the amount of our lives that we forfeit to housework has fallen from 60 hours a week to fewer than 15 hours a week.
17 世纪以前， 不到 15 %的欧洲人能读会写。 欧洲和美国在 20 世纪中叶 就消灭了文盲， 世界其他地方也在陆续跟上。 今天，全球年龄在 25 岁以下的人中， 超过 90 %的人口能读会写。 在 19 世纪，西方人每周工作时间 远远超过 60 个小时。 今天，这个数字已经低于 40 小时。 得益于发达国家 自来水和电的普及， 以及洗衣机，真空吸尘器， 冰箱、洗碗机、炉子和 微波炉的广泛使用， 我们花费在家务上的时间 从一周 60 个小时 下降至每周不到 15 小时。
Do all of these gains in health, wealth, safety, knowledge and leisure make us any happier? The answer is yes. In 86 percent of the world's countries, happiness has increased in recent decades.
在健康、财富、安全、知识 和休闲方面的这些进步 让我们更加幸福了吗？ 答案是肯定的。 全球 86 %的国家中， 幸福指数在最近几十年来都在增长。
Well, I hope to have convinced you that progress is not a matter of faith or optimism, but is a fact of human history, indeed the greatest fact in human history. And how has this fact been covered in the news?
好了，我希望我已经说服你们 进步无关信念或乐观， 而是人类历史的事实， 确实是人类历史上最伟大的事实。 而这些事实是如何 被新闻媒体报道的呢？
(Laughter)
（笑声）
A tabulation of positive and negative emotion words in news stories has shown that during the decades in which humanity has gotten healthier, wealthier, wiser, safer and happier, the "New York Times" has become increasingly morose and the world's broadcasts too have gotten steadily glummer.
新闻故事中积极和消极的情绪词汇表 已证明，在过去几十年里 人类变得更健康， 更富有，更聪明，更安全，更快乐。 《纽约时报》的措辞却变得越来越阴郁， 全球的广播节目的腔调 也变得越来越阴沉。
Why don't people appreciate progress? Part of the answer comes from our cognitive psychology. We estimate risk using a mental shortcut called the "availability heuristic." The easier it is to recall something from memory, the more probable we judge it to be. The other part of the answer comes from the nature of journalism, captured in this satirical headline from "The Onion," "CNN Holds Morning Meeting to Decide What Viewers Should Panic About For Rest of Day."
为什么人们不感激这些进步？ 部分答案来自于我们的认知心理学。 我们用一个名为“可得性启发”的 心理捷径来估计危险。 一件越容易被回忆起来的事， 我们就越可能认为它就是那样。 另外一部分答案来自于新闻业的本质， 这个讽刺性的头条取自“洋葱新闻“， “美国有线电视新闻网 CNN 开早会决定 观众在这一天应当对什么感到恐慌。“
(Laughter)
（笑声）
(Applause)
（掌声）
News is about stuff that happens, not stuff that doesn't happen. You never see a journalist who says, "I'm reporting live from a country that has been at peace for 40 years," or a city that has not been attacked by terrorists. Also, bad things can happen quickly, but good things aren't built in a day. The papers could have run the headline, "137,000 people escaped from extreme poverty yesterday" every day for the last 25 years. That's one and a quarter billion people leaving poverty behind, but you never read about it. Also, the news capitalizes on our morbid interest in what can go wrong, captured in the programming policy, "If it bleeds, it leads." Well, if you combine our cognitive biases with the nature of news, you can see why the world has been coming to an end for a very long time indeed.
新闻是报道那些正在发生的事， 而不是没有发生的事。 你从没见过一个记者说， “我正在一个40年来 局势都很稳定的国家直播”， 或者在一个从来没有被 恐怖分子袭击的城市直播。 另外，坏事可能会瞬间发生， 但是好事却不是一天能成的。 新闻媒体可以在 过去25年中。每天都使用 “昨天有 13 万 7 千人脱离了极端贫困” 这个标题。 也就是说，总共有 12.5 亿人脱离了贫困， 但是你从来没有看到过这一条新闻。 而且，新闻报道还会利用我们对 哪里会出现问题的病态兴趣， 其规划政策是“越血腥越吸睛”。 如果将我们的认知偏差和 新闻的本质相结合， 你就可以了解为什么这个世界 的确是在很久以前 就开始走向末日了。
Let me address some questions about progress that no doubt have occurred to many of you. First, isn't it good to be pessimistic to safeguard against complacency, to rake the muck, to speak truth to power? Well, not exactly. It's good to be accurate. Of course we should be aware of suffering and danger wherever they occur, but we should also be aware of how they can be reduced, because there are dangers to indiscriminate pessimism. One of them is fatalism. If all our efforts at improving the world have been in vain, why throw good money after bad? The poor will always be with you. And since the world will end soon -- if climate change doesn't kill us all, then runaway artificial intelligence will -- a natural response is to enjoy life while we can, eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die.
让我提出几个关于进步的问题， 豪无疑问这些进步 在你们很多人身上都发生过。 首先，成为一个悲观主义者， 可以防范自满、清清除糟粕， 向当权者说实话，这有什么不好吗？ 其实，这样未必好。 能做到精确是很好的。 当然我们都应当知道 痛苦和危险发生的地方， 但是我们也应当知道 如何去减少它们。 因为不分青红皂白的 悲观主义是危险的。 其中一个例子就是宿命论。 如果我们所有 推动这个世界进步的努力 都是徒劳的， 为什么我们还要去做无用功？ 反正贫穷无论如何都会一直跟随你。 并且既然这个世界 很快就要完蛋了—— 如果气候变化没有将我们全都干掉， 那么失控的人工智能也会—— 自然的反应就是，乐在当下吧， 吃喝玩乐，同时坐以待毙。
The other danger of thoughtless pessimism is radicalism. If our institutions are all failing and beyond hope for reform, a natural response is to seek to smash the machine, drain the swamp, burn the empire to the ground, on the hope that whatever rises out of the ashes is bound to be better than what we have now.
轻率的悲观主义的 另一个危险是激进主义。 如果我们的机构都失败了， 改革的希望也破灭了， 自然的反应就是砸烂机器， 抽干沼泽， 把帝国烧成灰烬， 抱着灰烬中无论长出什么 都要好于当下的幻想。
Well, if there is such a thing as progress, what causes it? Progress is not some mystical force or dialectic lifting us ever higher. It's not a mysterious arc of history bending toward justice. It's the result of human efforts governed by an idea, an idea that we associate with the 18th century Enlightenment, namely that if we apply reason and science that enhance human well-being, we can gradually succeed. Is progress inevitable? Of course not. Progress does not mean that everything becomes better for everyone everywhere all the time. That would be a miracle, and progress is not a miracle but problem-solving. Problems are inevitable and solutions create new problems which have to be solved in their turn. The unsolved problems facing the world today are gargantuan, including the risks of climate change and nuclear war, but we must see them as problems to be solved, not apocalypses in waiting, and aggressively pursue solutions like deep decarbonization for climate change and global zero for nuclear war.
那么，如果真的有进步这个东西， 是什么导致了进步呢？ 进步并不是某种神秘力量或辩证法， 可以将我们推向更高的境界。 它不是一条屈服于正义的神秘弧线。 进步是人类在一种思想 指引下努力的结果。 这个思想与 18 世纪的启蒙运动有关， 那就是，如果我们运用理性和科学 来提高人类的幸福水平， 我们就可以逐渐取得成功。 进步是不可避免的吗? 当然不是。 进步并不意味着所有人在任何地方， 任何时候都能变得更好。 那就算得上是一个奇迹， 但进步并不是奇迹， 而是解决问题的过程。 问题不可避免， 解决问题的方案还会带来新的问题， 这些问题在未来必须解决。 当今世界面临的 未解决的问题是巨大的， 包括气候变化 和核武战争的风险。 我们必须将其视为需要解决的问题， 不能坐以待毙， 而要积极寻求解决之道， 比如以深脱碳技术对应气候变化， 和全球零核战。
Finally, does the Enlightenment go against human nature? This is an acute question for me, because I'm a prominent advocate of the existence of human nature, with all its shortcomings and perversities. In my book "The Blank Slate," I argued that the human prospect is more tragic than utopian and that we are not stardust, we are not golden and there's no way we are getting back to the garden.
最后一点，启蒙运动 是否违背了人类的本性？ 这对我来说是个尖锐的问题， 因为我是人类本性天然存在 这一观点的主要倡导者， 尽管其中存在许多的缺点和不足。 在我的书《白板》中， 我认为人类的前景比乌托邦更悲惨， 我们不是星尘，我们不是金色的， 我们不可能回到伊甸园。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
But my worldview has lightened up in the 15 years since "The Blank Slate" was published. My acquaintance with the statistics of human progress, starting with violence but now encompassing every other aspect of our well-being, has fortified my belief that in understanding our tribulations and woes, human nature is the problem, but human nature, channeled by Enlightenment norms and institutions, is also the solution.
但是我的世界观 随着 15 年前《白板》的出版改变了。 我对人类进步的统计数据的接触—— 从暴力开始， 到现在涵盖了我们幸福的每一个方面—— 强化了我的信念， 即我们的困难和困境， 人性是主要的问题， 但是人性，在启蒙运动的 规范和制度引导下， 也可以是解决方案。
Admittedly, it's not easy to replicate my own data-driven epiphany with humanity at large. Some intellectuals have responded with fury to my book "Enlightenment Now," saying first how dare he claim that intellectuals hate progress, and second, how dare he claim that there has been progress.
不可否认，让人类普遍复制 我通过数据得到的洞察 并不容易。 有些学者愤怒地反击 我的书《当下的启蒙》说： 首先，他怎么敢宣称 知识分子痛恨进步， 第二，他怎么敢宣称 世界已经取得了进步。
(Laughter)
（笑声）
With others, the idea of progress just leaves them cold. Saving the lives of billions, eradicating disease, feeding the hungry, teaching kids to read? Boring.
和其他人一样， 进步的概念对他们毫无意义。 拯救数十亿人的生命， 消灭疾病，养活饥民， 教孩子识字？ 太无聊了。
At the same time, the most common response I have received from readers is gratitude, gratitude for changing their view of the world from a numb and helpless fatalism to something more constructive, even heroic.
同时，我得到的最常见的 反馈是读者的感谢， 为改变了他们对世界的看法而感激， 从麻木和无助的宿命论 变得更具建设性， 甚至更英勇。
I believe that the ideals of the Enlightenment can be cast a stirring narrative, and I hope that people with greater artistic flare and rhetorical power than I can tell it better and spread it further. It goes something like this.
我相信启蒙运动的理想 可以是一种激动人心的叙述。 我希望那些比我拥有 更丰富的艺术灵感 和修辞力量的人， 能够把这个故事讲述得更好， 并传播得更远。 听起来就像这样：
We are born into a pitiless universe, facing steep odds against life-enabling order and in constant jeopardy of falling apart. We were shaped by a process that is ruthlessly competitive. We are made from crooked timber, vulnerable to illusions, self-centeredness and at times astounding stupidity.
我们生于无情的宇宙， 面对着维持生命秩序的巨大挑战， 并不断陷入分裂的危险之中。 我们成长于残酷的竞争过程。 我们是弯木头做的， 容易幻想，以自我为中心， 有时愚蠢到令人发指。
Yet human nature has also been blessed with resources that open a space for a kind of redemption. We are endowed with the power to combine ideas recursively, to have thoughts about our thoughts. We have an instinct for language, allowing us to share the fruits of our ingenuity and experience. We are deepened with the capacity for sympathy, for pity, imagination, compassion, commiseration. These endowments have found ways to magnify their own power. The scope of language has been augmented by the written, printed and electronic word. Our circle of sympathy has been expanded by history, journalism and the narrative arts. And our puny rational faculties have been multiplied by the norms and institutions of reason, intellectual curiosity, open debate, skepticism of authority and dogma and the burden of proof to verify ideas by confronting them against reality.
然而，人类本性也被赋予了资源， 为一种救赎打开了空间。 我们被赋予了以递归的方式 组合思想的力量， 能够对个人的想法进行自省。 我们有语言的本能， 让我们可以分享智慧和经验成果。 我们因拥有怜悯、想象、 慈悲、同理心的能力而深化。 这些天赐的能力也找到了 扩大其作用的方法。 语言的覆盖范围因手写， 印刷和电子文字而增加。 我们的同情圈 因历史，新闻和叙事艺术而扩大。 通过理性的规范和制度， 好奇心，公开辩论， 对权威和教条的怀疑， 以及与现实对抗来验证想法的举证责任， 我们微小的理性思考能力 就会成倍增加。
As the spiral of recursive improvement gathers momentum, we eke out victories against the forces that grind us down, not least the darker parts of our own nature. We penetrate the mysteries of the cosmos, including life and mind. We live longer, suffer less, learn more, get smarter and enjoy more small pleasures and rich experiences. Fewer of us are killed, assaulted, enslaved, exploited or oppressed by the others. From a few oases, the territories with peace and prosperity are growing and could someday encompass the globe. Much suffering remains and tremendous peril, but ideas on how to reduce them have been voiced, and an infinite number of others are yet to be conceived.
随着递归改进的螺旋上升的 势头不断增强， 我们战胜了让我们沮丧的力量， 尤其是本性中较黑暗的部分。 我们深入宇宙的奥秘， 包括生命和心灵。 我们活得更久，遭遇更少，学得更多， 变得更聪明，享受更多的小乐趣 以及更丰富的体验。 更少的人被杀害，被袭击， 被奴役，被剥削， 或被人压迫。 从最初的几块绿洲， 和平与繁荣的领土正在增长， 终有一天，世界将会被其包围。 苦难依旧， 危险尚存， 但减少它们的方法已经被提出， 还有无数其他的方法仍在孕育中。
We will never have a perfect world, and it would be dangerous to seek one. But there's no limit to the betterments we can attain if we continue to apply knowledge to enhance human flourishing. This heroic story is not just another myth. Myths are fictions, but this one is true, true to the best of our knowledge, which is the only truth we can have. As we learn more, we can show which parts of the story continue to be true and which ones false, as any of them might be and any could become.
我们永远不会拥有完美的世界， 寻找完美世界的过程危机重重。 如果我们继续将知识用于人类福祉，  就会源源不断的获得更美好的东西。 这个英雄故事不是另一个神话。 神话是虚构的，但这是真的。 这是我们所知道的最好的真理， 也是我们唯一能拥有的真理。 当我们懂得更多， 我们就可以展示故事的哪些部分 继续为真，哪些为假， 而这一结果是随机的。
And this story belongs not to any tribe but to all of humanity, to any sentient creature with the power of reason and the urge to persist in its being, for it requires only the convictions that life is better than death, health is better than sickness, abundance is better than want, freedom is better than coercion, happiness is better than suffering and knowledge is better than ignorance and superstition.
这个故事不属于任何一个部落， 而属于全人类， 属于任何拥有离职和情感， 以及维系自己生命的欲望的生物。 因为它只需要相信 活着好过死亡， 健康好过疾病， 富足好于渴求， 自由好于强迫， 幸福好于痛苦， 知识胜于无知和迷信。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）