They wanted her piecemealed, papier-mâchéd, practically broken, limp-like and loveless, a litany of exaggeration. They wanted her low. And high. Flat and wide. Filled with all of their empty. They wanted her to be more like them.
﻿他们想让她支离破碎，磨成纸浆， 几近崩溃，跛行无爱，
Not knowing her conception was immaculate. That she was birthed in sandalwood-scented river water, sweet sapphire honey-touched tongue, she was too much of a mouthful for the greedy. Just a small amount of her was more than they could stand. Oh, they wanted her bland. And barren. Unspirited, un-African, uncultured, under siege in the streets.
一连串的夸大。 他们要她坠入谷底， 又让她升入天堂。 平坦而宽阔。 他们将空虚投向她。 想让她变得与他们一样。
They wanted her face down, ass up, hands cuffed and ankles strapped. They wanted her knowing she could never want them back. Oh, they wanted her holy, baptized in her divine, they wanted her secrets, pearls to swine. They wanted to unravel the mystery of her design. Fascinated by glory, hypnotized by her kind. Oh, they wanted her complete. They wanted her whole, though they came fractioned, half-hearted, half-soul, with no regards and no knowledge as to who she really was.
但却不知道她是完美的。 她生于一条散发着檀香的河里， 蓝宝石色的舌头甜如蜂蜜， 贪婪的他们无福消受她的美好。 她的一小部分也令他们感到沉重。 哦，他们想磨平她的棱角。 想割去她的子宫。 想令她失去灵魂， 不像非洲人，丢失文化， 想令她在街头流浪。
Oh, but if they knew. If they knew her, praise songs would rain from the clouds of their eyes, clearing the vision, bathing the heart. They would bow every time they saw her. Be their best selves when she was around.
他们想让她面朝下，臀朝下，  双手被铐，双脚被缚。 他们想让她知道， 她永远也无法将失去的要回来。 哦，他们想要她的圣洁， 想在她的神圣中受洗， 他们想要她的秘密， 但这就像对牛弹琴。 他们想解开她的创造之谜。 被她的荣耀所吸引， 被她的仁慈而催眠。 哦，他们希望她完整。 他们想要她的全部， 虽然他们分崩离析，半心半意， 甚至完全不了解，她到底是谁。
If they knew her, knew she was the glue to their revolution, the life flow of blood through their veins. If they knew her, she would know, she would feel that her body is more than battlefield.
哦，但如果他们了解的话。 如果他们了解她， 他们的眼睛会溢出里赞美的诗， 他们可以清理目光，洗涤心灵。 他们每次见到她都会鞠躬。 他们能在她身边做最好的自己。
More than bone break and bleeding bigotry. More than bridge over your troubled conscience. More than used up, walked on, driven through, shot up. More than your "Selma, Lord, Selma" Edmund Pettus. More than your killer Katrina Danziger. More than your bust them out of Baltimore "Highway to Nowhere." If they knew her, she would know.
如果他们了解她， 就会知道她是他们代谢的枢纽， 他们血管里生命的流动。 如果他们认识她， 她会洞察， 她能同感， 她的身体不再是一个战场。
(Singing)
不再有骨折和出血偏执。 不再有困难渡过认知。 不再枯竭，靠近，驶离，狂涨。 不再要高喊“塞尔玛，主， 塞尔玛”的埃德蒙·佩图斯。 不再有卡特里娜飓风后的 单兹格大桥枪击案。 不止有从巴尔的摩淘汰的 “通往无处的公路”。 如果他们认识她， 她什么都知道。
Wild women, wild women, they walk with buffalo. Have lightning on their tongues, fly whisks as weapons. Wild women, they walk with machetes. With wisdom, with grace, with ease. Wild women have hurricanes in their bellies, releasing a flood of a lesson. Oh, wild women, they fly free. Just watch their ways, how they rip and shred.
（歌唱）
Oh, who can understand her, this winding Niger river of a woman one who is unafraid to tear away only to roam and then become the wind. She who speaks in gusts and cyclones blasting us back to high ground, high consciousness, she turns and so does the world. Feel her spinning, spanning several lifetimes. Hear her speaking, sparking alarm. See her dancing, summoning the dead, resurrecting new life. Heaven hears her knocking on the door, safely transporting the ones who call for her assistance.
野性之女们， 野性之女们啊，她们与水牛同行。 她们舌尖有闪电， 以拂尘为武器。 野性之女们啊，她们在刀尖上行走。 智慧，优雅，放松。  野性之女们的腹部有飓风， 释放泛滥的教训。 哦，野性之女们啊，她们自由飞翔。 看，她们如何撕裂。
Wild women, they open portals to new worlds, new speech, new dreams.
哦，谁能理解她们， 这些来自蜿蜒的 尼日尔河里的女人们， 她们不怕被撕裂， 她们遨游成风。 她们在飓风中吟咏， 她们带我们回到高地，神志高昂， 她转过身来，世界也是如此。 感受她的旋转， 跨越数个生命周期。 听她发声，迸射忧虑。 看她舞动，召唤死灵， 复苏新生。 天堂听到她敲门， 营救召唤她的生灵。
Oh, dearly beloveds, so dearly departed from the ways of the guardian, beware. For wild women are not to be tamed. Only admired. Just let her in and witness her set your days ablaze.
野性女子们， 打开通往新世界的大门， 新的演说，新的梦想。
(Cheers) (Applause)
哦，亲爱的爱人， 离开了守卫， 要小心啊。 对还未被驯化的野性之女， 我们只有钦佩。 让她进来吧，见证你炽盛的日子。
Thank you.
（欢呼）（掌声）
(Applause)
谢谢大家。