This is an equipment graveyard. It's a typical final resting place for medical equipment from hospitals in Africa. Now, why is this? Most of the medical devices used in Africa are imported, and quite often, they're not suitable for local conditions. They may require trained staff that aren't available to operate and maintain and repair them; they may not be able to withstand high temperatures and humidity; and they usually require a constant and reliable supply of electricity.
﻿这是一座设备的墓地。 是为非洲医院中的 医疗器械提供的 一个典型的最终归宿地。 为什么会有这样一番景象？ 大多数在非洲使用的 医疗设备都是进口的， 很多情况下， 它们并不适用于当地的条件。 它们可能要求 训练有素的医护人员， 然而现实中这些人并没有能力 去操作、保养或者维修这些设备； 这些设备可能无法 承受高温和潮湿的环境； 并且它们需要持续 可靠的供给电源。
An example of a medical device that may have ended up in an equipment graveyard at some point is an ultrasound monitor to track the heart rate of unborn babies. This is the standard of care in rich countries. In low-resource settings, the standard of care is often a midwife listening to the baby's heart rate through a horn. Now, this approach has been around for more than a century. It's very much dependent on the skill and the experience of the midwife.
一个医疗设备在某个时间 可能被弃置于设备墓地的例子是， 一个用于实时跟踪胎儿 心跳的超声波监测仪。 在发达国家，它是 孕检的标准配置。 然而在低配置的环境中， 孕检的标准常常是 一位助产士用角状听诊器 去听宝宝的心跳。 至今，这种方法已经 沿用了超过一个世纪。 这种方法很依赖于 助产士的技术和经验。
Two young inventors from Uganda visited an antenatal clinic at a local hospital a few years ago, when they were students in information technology. They noticed that quite often, the midwife was not able to hear any heart rate when trying to listen to it through this horn. So they invented their own fetal heart rate monitor. They adapted the horn and connected it to a smartphone. An app on the smartphone records the heart rate, analyzes it and provides the midwife with a range of information on the status of the baby. These inventors --
几年前，两位年轻的乌干达发明家 来到了一家当地医院的 附属产前诊所， 他们当时还是信息技术专业的学生。 他们注意到，很多情况下， 当那里的助产士 尝试用角状听诊器去听的时候， 其实根本听不到任何心跳的声音。 因此，他们发明了 自己的一套胎儿心跳监视器。 他们改造了角状听诊器， 并将它和智能手机相连接。 在手机上有一个应用 可实时记录心跳、分析数据， 并且提供给助产士 一系列关于宝宝 当前状况的信息。 这两位发明家——
(Applause)
（鼓掌）
are called Aaron Tushabe and Joshua Okello.
是亚伦·杜尚别(Aaron Tushabe) 和约书亚·奥凯洛(Joshua Okello)。
Another inventor, Tendekayi Katsiga, was working for an NGO in Botswana that manufactured hearing aids. Now, he noticed that these hearing aids needed batteries that needed replacement, very often at a cost that was not affordable for most of the users that he knew. In response, and being an engineer, Tendekayi invented a solar-powered battery charger with rechargeable batteries, that could be used in these hearing aids. He cofounded a company called Deaftronics, which now manufactures the Solar Ear, which is a hearing aid powered by his invention.
另一位发明家， 滕德卡伊·卡特西戈(Tendekayi Katsiga)， 是博兹瓦纳一个民间组织的成员， 这个组织是制造助听设备的。 当时，他注意到这些助听设备 需要经常更换电池， 而这样的花费是许多使用者 负担不起的。 为此，作为一名工程师的滕德卡伊 针对这些助听设备， 发明了一款带可充电电池的 太阳能电池充电器。 他与别人共同创立了一家名叫 “Deaftronics”的公司。 这家公司如今 在生产“太阳能耳(Solar Ear)”， 这是一种由他发明的电池 供能的助听装置。
My colleague, Sudesh Sivarasu, invented a smart glove for people who have suffered from leprosy. Even though their disease may have been cured, the resulting nerve damage will have left many of them without a sense of touch in their hands. This puts them at risk of injury. The glove has sensors to detect temperature and pressure and warn the user. It effectively serves as an artificial sense of touch and prevents injury. Sudesh invented this glove after observing former leprosy patients as they carried out their day-to-day activities, and he learned about the risks and the hazards in their environment.
我有一个同事名叫 苏德什·思沃苏(Sudesh Sivarasu)， 他发明了智能手套来帮助麻风病人。 即使他们的疾病可以被治愈， 但是麻风对神经的伤害会导致 他们手部的触觉丧失。 这会使他们很容易受伤。 这款手套拥有温度和压力传感器， 可以帮助使用者（远离潜在的伤害）。 它有效的提供了 一种人造的触觉感受， 从而避免使用者受伤。 苏德什在仔细观察了之前的 麻风病人每天要做的事情， 而且在得知这些病人 时刻面临受伤的风险之后， 发明了这款手套。
Now, the inventors that I've mentioned integrated engineering with healthcare. This is what biomedical engineers do. At the University of Cape Town, we run a course called Health Innovation and Design. It's taken by many of our graduate students in biomedical engineering. The aim of the course is to introduce these students to the philosophy of the design world. The students are encouraged to engage with communities as they search for solutions to health-related problems.
上述提到的这些发明者 结合了电子工程和健康管理的知识。 这也是许多生物医学 工程师做的事情。 在开普敦大学， 我们开设了一门名叫 “健康的创新设计”的课程。 主修这门课程的是 生物医学工程的研究生。 这门课程的目标是 为学生们介绍 设计世界中的哲学。 他们鼓励学生加入一些团体， 寻找与健康相关问题的解决方案。
One of the communities that we work with is a group of elderly people in Cape Town. A recent class project had the task of addressing hearing loss in these elderly people. The students, many of them being engineers, set out believing that they would design a better hearing aid. They spent time with the elderly, chatted to their healthcare providers and their caregivers. They soon realized that, actually, adequate hearing aids already existed, but many of the elderly who needed them and had access to them didn't have them. And many of those who had hearing aids wouldn't wear them. The students realized that many of these elderly people were in denial of their hearing loss. There's a stigma attached to wearing a hearing aid. They also discovered that the environment in which these elderly people lived did not accommodate their hearing loss. For example, their homes and their community center were filled with echoes that interfered with their hearing. So instead of developing and designing a new and better hearing aid, the students did an audit of the environment, with a view to improving the acoustics. They also devised a campaign to raise awareness of hearing loss and to counter the stigma attached to wearing a hearing aid. Now, this often happens when one pays attention to the user -- in this case, the elderly -- and their needs and their context. One often has to move away from the focus of technology and reformulate the problem.
其中一个我们工作的社区是 一个开普敦的老年团体。 一个最近的课程项目任务是 去登记丧失听力的老人。 这些学生，大部分是工程师， 他们很自信自己 会设计出更好的助听器。 他们跟那些老人相处了一段时间， 与老人们的卫生保健人员 和看护人聊天。 他们不久就意识到， 事实上，合适的助听器早已存在， 但是很多需要并使用这些设备的老人， 却并不拥有这些设备。 并且很多有助听器的人， 却不会佩戴它们。 这些学生意识到， 很多的老年人拒绝接受 他们有听力障碍的现状。 戴助听器会与耻辱联系到一起。 他们还发现这些 老年人居住的环境， 十分不利于有听力障碍的人。 比如说，他们的家和社区中心 充斥着干扰他们听力的回声。 因此，这些学生把工作重心从开发 并设计出全新且更好的助听设备， 改为在该环境中进行一项调查， 以此制定出提高传声效果的计划。 他们还设计出一个活动计划， 来提高人们对于听力丧失群体的关注， 从而消除戴助听器与耻辱之间的关系。 当一个人开始关注使用者， 这种情况常常发生—— 这里是指那些老年人—— 他们的需要和环境。 一个人常常不得不 离开科技的聚光灯， 纠正这个问题。
This approach to understanding a problem through listening and engaging is not new, but it often isn't followed by engineers, who are intent on developing technology. One of our students has a background in software engineering. He had often created products for clients that the client ultimately did not like. When a client would reject a product, it was common at his company to proclaim that the client just didn't know what they wanted. Having completed the course, the student fed back to us that he now realized that it was he who hadn't understood what the client wanted. Another student gave us feedback that she had learned to design with empathy, as opposed to designing for functionality, which is what her engineering education had taught her.
去理解一个问题的方法是 去倾听并且参与它， 虽然这个方法已经是老生常谈， 但是它并不经常被那些 一心想发展科技的工程师们所采用。 我们有一个学生 有软件工程方面的背景。 他曾经为顾客发明产品， 但那些产品顾客根本就不喜欢。 当有顾客想去 拒绝一件产品的时候， 他的公司经常表明的是 顾客只是不知道 他们自己想要的是什么。 在完成课程学习之后， 那个学生给我们的反馈是， 现在他意识到 不知道顾客想要什么的 是他自己。 另一个学生给我们的反馈是， 她曾经怀揣着同理心学设计， 反对单纯的实用性设计， 这是她的专业教育教给她的。
So what all of this illustrates is that we're often blinded to real needs in our pursuit of technology. But we need technology. We need hearing aids. We need fetal heart rate monitors.
我上述所有的举例说明了 我们在盲目追求科技过程中 忽视了真正的需求。 但是我们需要科技。 我们需要助听器， 我们需要胎儿心跳监视器。
So how do we create more medical device success stories from Africa? How do we create more inventors, rather than relying on a few exceptional individuals who are able to perceive real needs and respond in ways that work? Well, we focus on needs and people and context. "But this is obvious," you might say, "Of course context is important."
那么我们如何去创造更多的 医疗设备在非洲成功的案例呢？ 我们如何去培养出更多的发明者， 而不是依赖于 一小部分有杰出能力的人， 那些有能力去感知 真正被需要的东西， 并且在他们的工作中做出对策的人？ 我们关注具体的需求、人群和环境。 “但这不是很明显的吗，”你可能会说， ”环境当然是很重要的因素啊。”
But Africa is a diverse continent, with vast disparities in health and wealth and income and education. If we assume that our engineers and inventors already know enough about the different African contexts to be able to solve the problems of our different communities and our most marginalized communities, then we might get it wrong. But then, if we on the African continent don't necessarily know enough about it, then perhaps anybody with the right level of skill and commitment could fly in, spend some time listening and engaging and fly out knowing enough to invent for Africa.
但是非洲是一块多元化的陆地， 在健康、财富、收入 和教育方面有很大的差异。 如果我们假定我们的 工程师和发明家足够了解 非洲多元化的环境特点， 从而有能力去解决不同社区 和我们最边缘化的社区问题， 我们就有可能会向错误的方向发展。 但是，如果我们在非洲大陆上 得知了超出计划的环境信息， 然后也许有一定技术水平和 责任感的人都会飞到非洲， 花一些时间来聆听、参与， 并在了解了足够信息之后 回到自己的国家开始为非洲打造新发明。
But understanding context is not about a superficial interaction. It's about deep engagement and an immersion in the realities and the complexities of our context. And we in Africa are already immersed. We already have a strong and rich base of knowledge from which to start finding solutions to our own problems. So let's not rely too much on others when we live on a continent that is filled with untapped talent.
但是对非洲环境的理解 并不仅限于浅层次的互动。 这是一种深度的参与， 需要深入了解现实情况 以及环境的复杂性。 我们早就深入了非洲的环境之中。 我们早已拥有一个 强大且丰富的知识储备， 并且开始寻找我们 自身问题的解决方案。 所以，我们不需要过分依赖他人， 特别是当我们正身处一个 拥有众多潜力人才的陆地上。
Thank you.
谢谢。
(Applause)
（鼓掌）