This is my favorite place on earth, Salar de Uyuni in Bolivia. And when it's covered in a thin layer of water, it reflects the clouds. There are days when you feel as if you're floating among the clouds. But there are days when the horizon disappears; there's no longer a top or a bottom. You feel immersed in something bigger.
﻿这是我在这个地球上最喜欢的地方 位于玻利维亚的乌尤尼盐沼 当其被一层薄薄的水面笼罩， 它倒印着空中的云彩 某些天里你能感受到浮在云中的感觉 而这种水平感在另一些日子里又会消失 分不清哪里是天空，哪里是地面 你能感到被一些巨大的东西包围着
It was there that one night I woke up from a dream, and I saw that the stars were also reflected on the water. And that wasn't a dream. It was as if you could walk among the stars. With every step I took, the stars reverberated under my feet. It was like I was floating in the universe among clouds of galaxies.
一天夜里，我正好从梦中醒来， 我看见，星星也被倒映在水面上 而这竟然不是一个梦 你似乎可以在星星中漫步 当我迈出每一步，星星都在我的足底显露出来 我就像漂浮在宇宙中，和千万个星系一起
But what's floating there today are not just clouds of galaxies but also clouds of plastic. These are the footprints we're leaving on the planet. They're signs of an era in which the behavior of some humans is making a global impact on our ecosystems. This era is called the Anthropocene. There's also another type of toxic clouds that float in the air, like the ones that form from carbon dioxide emissions and from the burning of fossil fuels -- oil, carbon, gas -- clouds that, when we see them, pollute our dreams. I don't know about all of you, but I've always dreamed of floating among the clouds. Maybe today we can imagine together other types of clouds, clouds we can live with.
可是现在那里浮着的可不仅仅是银河和云朵 还有和云一样多的塑料垃圾 这将是我们留在这个地球上的脚印 这是一个时代的纪念 一些人的做法造成了生态圈中 全球性的影响 这个时代被称作：“人类纪元” 在空中，同样也悬浮着有毒的云层 比如由二氧化碳排放引起的 由燃烧化石燃料导致的～油、炭和天然气... 这些云看起来 已经影响到了我们的梦境 我不知道你怎么想 我可一直做着浮在云端的美梦 也许今天我们可以畅想别的一些云 能和我们和平共处的云
If you're wondering about that photo, I'll explain: it looks like a collage or photomontage -- something weird. No; it's reality. But sometimes I ask myself: What is reality? According to Alexander Kluge: "Human beings are not interested in reality. They can’t be; it’s part of the human essence. They have desires. These desires are totally opposed to any form of reality. They prefer to lie than to become divorced from their desires." But how can we learn to float among the clouds? As an artist, I thought we could start building a flying museum. You're probably wondering: With plastic bags?
如果你对这幅图片感到费解，那么听我解释： 它就像一个拼图或重复曝光的底片——一个怪玩意儿 其实，这就是现实。 但是有些时候我问我自己：什么是现实？ 亚历山大.克鲁格提出： “人类才不在乎什么是现实 他们不能够体会，这就是人性的本质之一” 他们有欲望 他们的欲望与现实恰恰相反 他们宁可说谎 也不愿意从他们的欲望中抽身 可我们怎么样才能漂浮在云间呢？ 作为一个艺术家，我觉得我们应当造一个飞行博物馆 你或许奇怪：用塑胶袋么？
In 2007, with a community of people all over the world, we began to collect used plastic bags -- not new ones. And we washed them, we cut them up, we glued them together, and we began to draw on them, creating a huge canvas. We made a collection of drawings, of personal stories and of friendships. And when you join them, bend them and fold them, it creates a space full of air. When the sun comes up from the horizon, the museum rises up to the sky. That's why we call it, "The Aero-Solar Museum." And from this simple idea, we learned how to float in the air in a radically new way, without using any type of fuel. The difference in temperature between the interior and the exterior is what makes us rise up. That way, we don't use fossil fuels or helium or hydrogen; we don't use solar panels or batteries or motors. We discovered a way that's simple, clean and accessible to the whole world to lift ourselves up.
在2007年，一个由全球各地的人组成了一个组织 我们开始收集废弃的塑胶袋 不是新的塑料袋 我们清洗它们 将它们剪开 在用胶水粘在一起 最后我们在上面画画 这是一个巨大的画布 我们完成了一个巨幅的拼接作品 阐述着各人的故事 关于友谊 而当你也加入 弯曲并折叠它们时 它形成了一个完全由空气组成的空间 当阳光从地平线中升起 这个博物馆便飘到天空上 这就是我们之所以叫它“气流-太阳能 博物馆”的原因 也是因为这个简单的想法 我们学会了一种崭新的漂浮在空中的形式 不必使用任何燃料 浮力来源于球体内外的温度差 使得我们可以飞向空中 这样， 我们就不需要化石燃料、氦气、或者氢气 也不用太阳能板 电池、或引擎 我们发现了一个如此简单，清洁，并且容易获得的主意 来吧我们升到天空
I remember when I was at NASA in 2009 with 120 engineers. You guys know, too, when you go up in a plane, the control panels are gigantic. And what we're doing is really complex, and when I started coming in with the plastic bags, saying, "But we have a different way ..." people had a hard time understanding the concept. Seeing the power of this idea, we started to initiate a new era; one that would leave behind the violence of the Anthropocene and give way to a new era, which we call the "Aerocene" -- an era of ecological awareness, in which we learn to float together, live together in the air, and come to an ethical commitment with the atmosphere and with planet earth. That's why I've brought this backpack today. Let's see ...
我记得2009年我还在NASA时，和120位机械工程师一起 你们也知道，当你乘飞机起飞 那些控制器都是庞然大物 我们所做的事情其实是很复杂的 然后我就带着我的塑胶袋出现了 并向大家说：“我有一个新办法......“ 人们要理解这个主意并不简单 而看到这个主意的力量的人们 我们开始了一个新的纪元 一个与“人类中心论”的粗暴相背离的 另一个新的纪元 我们叫它：“空气中心论” 一个以环保为核心的纪元， 在这个纪元中，我们学会漂浮并一起生活在天空中 并且和大气层，以及地球本身 形成了一种伦理上的承诺 这也是今天我为什么背着这个背包的原因 让我们看看...
OK. This is a balloon that we also refer to as a sculpture. And if it's sunny out tomorrow, we can go out and fly -- though, no, the weather in Vancouver isn't --
是的，这是个气球，我们也叫它雕塑 而且如果明天是个晴天，我们就可以一起出门放飞它～ 可惜温哥华的天气实在不给力
(Laughter)
（观众大笑）
it's not very ... very favorable.
不是特别 令人愉快的天气
So, what other features does it have? It has sensors that, when it moves, make sort of drawings in the air. It also has other sensors. I always think that first you have to feel it, and then you can measure it; you need to hear the sounds of the atmosphere, of the climate, of the hot air, in order to then measure the ozone, the carbon dioxide. We're developing these sensors together with different communities all over the world in order to reconnect with the climate, the temperature and the environment, because there are other species in the air; in these excursions towards the atmosphere, we're not alone. The air is full of clouds of life. We live at the bottom of an ocean of air.
所以，它还有什么别的特征呢？ 它配备了探测器，当它移动时 就开始在天空中作画 它也装备了其他的感应器 我总是在想，你们得亲身摸一摸它 你才对他有感觉 你得亲耳听听着大气层的声音 天气，和热空气， 才能量化臭氧层结构 二氧化碳的浓度 我们正在开发这些探测器 与全世界不同的社群一起合作 一起与天气、温度和环境达成一种新的联系 因为在空中还生活着其他的物种 在我们迈向大气的集体进步中， 我们并不孤单 空气中充满了一朵朵云的生命体 我们其实住在由空气层组成的海洋的洋底
And this same sculpture, this exact one in my hands, flew 375 miles -- 12 hours -- from Germany to Poland, on a fuel-free trip. But it wasn't free from crossing borders. The trip was much more complicated than what we imagined; air space is as regulated and militarized as land space. To fly using the winds, the heat of the sun and the radiant energy of the earth is complex and beautiful. But even more complex will be getting the permits to cross the air space of each of the different countries that we fly over using wind.
还有这个雕塑 我手里正拿着的这个 飞了375英里，在十二个小时内，从德国到波兰 没用一滴石油 可是它没能通过国境的边界 这趟旅行比我们最初想象的要复杂许多 制空权也是由军队捍卫和管理的 和国土一样 我们利用风，和太阳的热度 以及地球本身散发的辐射能 飞翔，是一件即复杂又优美的事儿 可更难的是 让那些国家允许我们 乘风飞过他们的边境
At COP21, the Paris Climate Conference, we presented these spherical sculptures that could transport us all over the world. But how can we fly using the wind to arrive at our destination? Together with MIT, we developed a program that predicts how we can navigate the wind highways. For example, if I had to return to Berlin from Vancouver, the first thing I would need to do is choose an altitude. At different altitudes, there are different directions and different speeds. The red line is tomorrow and the orange, the day after tomorrow. And there it goes. You can see, the best day to fly back to Berlin -- so now, traveling using only wind -- is in six days. And we can get to 105 miles from the center of Berlin without burning a single drop of fuel, being transported only by wind currents.
在COP21，在巴黎召开的环境会议上， 我们阐述了这些球形雕塑的意义 说起它如何能带着乘客到达世界的每一个角落 可是，只依赖风的话我们怎么能准确的到达地点呢？ 和麻省理工大学一起，我们建立了一个项目 来预测我们将如何利用风的“高速路”飞行 比如说，如果我要从温哥华飞回柏林 第一件我要做的事情，是选一个高度 在不同的高度上，风的方向是不同的 速度也是不同的 红线代表了明天，而橙线，代表着后天 那么 你可以看出：飞回柏林的最佳出发日是～ 只靠风力的话-- 在六天后 我们可以到达距离柏林市中心105英里的地方 不燃烧一滴汽油 只利用到气流的助动力
So we thought that these trajectories that we drew with the wind could become signatures, declaring "Independence from Fossil Fuels Day." More and more of us are experiencing the air in a different way. You're all familiar with Earth Day. We think we should also celebrate Air Day: it's a pact that we make with the earth, an ethical commitment to the atmosphere. But let's keep thinking and dreaming.
所以，我们想这些我们用风画出的一道道轨迹 可以变成签名，宣布今天是“汽油终结日” 越来越多的人加入我们，并体验气流 带给他们全新的感受 你们大家都知道“地球日” 我想我们也应该庆祝一下“空气日” 这是我们与地球结成的一个约定 一个和我们的大气层签订的伦理上的承诺 但同时，让我们保持思考和梦想
We've learned that the bigger the sculptures are, the more weight they can lift. Remember, they rise up only with hot air that's been heated by the sun. Using this approach, we can learn to build gardens in the air. Could we one day live in a garden the size of the earth? Could we live in an ecosystem floating among the clouds? Answering these questions isn't just a technological challenge; it's a way to reexamine the freedom of movement between countries, and of overcoming the political, social, cultural and military restrictions of contemporary societies. Because in the end, the air belongs to everybody and doesn't answer to any government.
我们知道，雕塑越大， 它能加载的重量更重， 请记住 它们能升起完全是因为太阳辐射加热了空气 利用这个手段，我们可以尝试建造出空中花园 我们会不会有一天真的住在一个地球这么大的花园中？ 我们能不能住在云层里？ 要回答这些问题，可不只是一个技术上的挑战 而是一个考验国与国中间自由行动的能力 以及排除政治、社会、文化和军队的控制 这些现代社会的制度 因为归根究底 空气是属于每一个人的 它不听任何国家的指挥
(Applause)
（掌声）
And like we said earlier, our imagination is the force that allows us to create these places.
就和我之前说的那样 我们的想象本身就是让我们前行的动力
This is an installation I did at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. It asks the question: What might these transnational spaces be like? And once we inhabit those spaces, we need to learn how to move within them, to walk among the clouds, where every movement affects everyone else's movements; the body weight and proximity between people will cause the space to expand ... or contract. There we are, suspended 72 feet in the air. When two or more people get too close together, even those farthest away are affected -- everyone falls to the same spot. These are fragile ecosystems. And it's between these spheres that we build nets that connect us. There are moments when we have to face the void, and fear can paralyze us. One of the most beautiful things about this exhibit is the sense of solidarity generated when we face these new "aero-graphs."
这是我做的一个装置艺术 在纽约的大都会美术馆展出。 它提出了一个问题： 这些跨越国际的空间将是什么模样？ 当我们真正生活在这样的空间中，我们如何在里面移动？ 在云中漫步， 每一个人的行动都会干扰到另一个人的轨迹 不同的人的体重和距离也将是一个命题 它会导致这个空间或是膨胀 或是紧缩 于是，当我们高悬在72英尺的高空时， 当两个人靠的太近， 甚至那些了他们很远的人也可以感知到 所有人落在同一个点上， 这是一个十分脆弱的生态系统， 所以在这些生态球中，我们要拉起网来连接人们 有些时候，当我们面对一片虚无 恐惧也许会使我们麻木 这个展示最美妙的一点 就是对实体的构建 当我们面对这些新的“空气-图”时
Finally, let me tell you one last story. On July 16, 1945, on the White Sands of New Mexico, an atomic bomb was detonated for the first time. As a result of this explosion, a cloud of radioactive particles disseminated all over the earth, marking the beginning of the Anthropocene era. Seventy years later, on November 8, 2015, in the same place, another event occurred. For the first time in history, we lifted a person into the air using only the sun, without burning any fossil fuels. As the sun rose up above the horizon, we rose up, too, silently, slowly, with no explosions. We felt as if gravity had been inverted; it wasn't pulling us toward the center of the earth, but toward the universe. If Neil Armstrong said, when he walked on the moon, "That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind," perhaps what we ought to ask ourselves is: What steps do we need to take today?
最后 让我告诉你们一个故事 在1945年7月16日， 在新墨西哥程的白沙地上， 一个原子弹被首次发射了 而这场爆炸的后果 就是将放射性的粒子通过风传遍了全球 这标志着“人类纪元”的开始 七十年后，在2015年11月8日 同样的地点 另一件事发生了 在人类历史上 我们首次将一个人带到空中，而只利用了太阳的热量 不燃烧一滴石油 当太阳从地平线上升起 我们也缓缓上升 轻轻地 慢慢地 没有爆炸 我们感到似乎重力被反转了 我们不再被重力拽向地面 而是朝着宇宙升腾 如果Neil Armstrong在月球漫步的时候说出 ”这是一个人的一小步 却是全人类的一大步“ 也许我们应当自省的问题是： 我们究竟应当向何处迈步
In the Aerocene era, our steps are much smaller, but radically different; they're steps that began with a bag full of air and wishes, but that can carry us to independence from fossil fuels and the opportunity to celebrate Air Day; steps that won't leave footprints on other planets until we've learned to walk in the atmosphere of this one. The landscapes are tiny and the steps are tiny, but I hope we can take them together. And I'm sure that these steps will lead us much further than the moon, so we can learn to float with our feet on the ground.
在这个空气纪元的时代 我们的脚步变的更小，但彻底的不同了 我们的脚步包括了一大口袋的空气和梦想 它能够带着我们走向零石油的明天 而这个庆祝”空气日“的机会 将不会落在另一个星球的表面上， 在我们学会在我们自己的大气中漫步， 景观就变得微小， 迈得步子也不大， 但是我希望，我们可以将其结合。 我还坚信，这些脚步将带领我们到达远超过月球的距离， 所以，让我们学会漂浮，脚踏实地地。
Thank you.
谢谢大家。
(Applause)
(掌声）