Do you like being spooked?
Today is Halloween, the holiday full of tricks and treats and all things frightening and fun. But what happens when you trade your sweets for a scare? The result is way healthier than candy.
The Positives of Fear
Being frightened can be good for you. Think about your favorite scary book or movie. What happens when something goes bump in the night, or a door creaks or slams, or glass shatters? It often makes us jump. This reaction is provoked by fear.
Fear makes your brain flood with healthy chemical substances that excite your mood and release feelings of euphoria, or great excitement. According to Dr. Margee Kerr, a sociologist who studies fear, this "powerful chemical punch" includes endorphins and dopamine -- a natural compound in the body that creates feelings of happiness.
When you're spooked, your body also produces a chemical called oxytocin. This hormone helps people bond with one another. When people share the experience of being scared, it can make them feel closer. So, if you're at a haunted house with some pals, that experience can help solidify your friendship. "Watch people walking out of a haunted house, and you'll see lots of smiles and high fives," Kerr says.
A Healthy Scare
There is also some evidence that being scared can help a person manage stressful situations. Things like giving a presentation in front of your class or performing in a school play can make us fearful and anxious. But these experiences help build a sort of endurance to fear that makes us more confident. "You become more comfortable with the physical experience of fear, and so you're better able to work though it during tense situations," Kerr explains.
Though some haunting may be healthy, it's important to remember that people experience fear in different ways. What may be fun for one person could be too scary for another. And Kerr notes that kids younger than six and or seven can't separate real and make-believe, so seeing something frightening could have lasting, negative effects.
But for most people who are old enough, a little "boo" now and then isn't so bad. In fact, it may be positively spook-tacular.
A recent survey found that only 9% of teens in the United States smoke cigarettes. That's down from 23% in 2000. It's less than the numbers of landlines still in use and the number of VHS tapes sold in 2013. While this is good news for America's overall health, tobacco use is still a problem.
Cigarettes have been linked to cancer, lung disease, diabetes, heart conditions, and high blood pressure. Despite knowing the health effects, teenagers still smoke. According to the American Lung Association, every day almost 3,900 children under 18 years of age try their first cigarette, and more than 950 of them will become daily smokers. If the trend continues at its current rate, 5.8 million children alive today will die as a result of smoking.
The Truth campaign is working to end teenage smoking all together. Their latest #FinishIt series uses social media to spread awareness about the dangers of smoking. "If we all join forces -- smokers and non-smokers -- we can end smoking once and for all," the campaign website states. The campaign encourages teens to not judge, but instead to learn the facts. "We're not here to criticize your choices, or tell you not to smoke. We're here to arm everyone -- smokers and non-smokers -- with the tools to make change," they say.
Another Issue Surfaces 
Anti-smoking campaigns may have a new problem to worry about. A 2013 report from the Center for Disease Control found that use of electronic cigarettes, battery-powered devices, is on the rise. High school students who reported ever using an electronic cigarette rose from 4.7% percent in 2011 to 10% in 2012.
"The increased use of e-cigarettes by teens is deeply troubling," said CDC Director Tom Frieden, M. D., M. P. H. "Nicotine is a highly addictive drug. Many teens who start with e-cigarettes may struggle with a lifelong addiction."
Scientists are still researching exactly how harmful e-cigarettes are.. "This is cause for great concern as we don't yet understand the long-term effects of these novel tobacco products," said Mitch Zeller, director of FDA's Center for Tobacco Products.
Secondhand Effects 
According to the CDC, harmful effects of smoking do not end with the smoker. An estimated 88 million nonsmoking Americans, including 54% of children between the ages of 3 and 11, are exposed to secondhand smoke. Even brief exposure can be dangerous.
This year, the pharmacy chain CVS made a move to fight the tobacco trend. It became the first nationwide pharmacy to ban sales of cigarettes and tobacco products at its U. S. stores. The decision came after years of pressure from health experts.
"The question we get from health care providers is: how serious are you about health?" says Troy Brennan, chief medical officer at CVS Caremark. "This decision indicates exactly how serious we are."
With the obvious danger of tobacco, anti-smoking campaigns have become more popular. Some college campuses and other outdoor areas across the country have banned smoking altogether.
As of October 27, 21,615 children and teens have joined the Truth campaign and pledged not to smoke. The group hopes that they can give teens and young people the knowledge to "be the generation that ends smoking."
A mysterious illness is affecting kids in ten different states, and could become a nationwide issue, doctors say. The sickness is a respiratory virus, and is similar to the common cold, but more severe. It has already sent hundreds of children to the hospital. "This is a very common time for outbreaks," Chief Health and Medical Editor Dr. Richard Besser told ABC News. "But this one is very rare and they have no idea why it showed up this year."
Going Viral
Health officials have not yet identified the virus. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a bug called Enterovirus 68 is what may be causing so many kids to get sick. Enteroviruses are common, and cause about 10 to 15 million infections in the U. S. each year, according to the CDC. People are more likely to become sick with an enterovirus in late summer and fall, so it is not unusual for the common cold to be going around when kids return back to school. But, the symptoms of this particular virus have hit hard and fast. 
Symptoms of the common cold shared by Enterovirus 68 include coughing, runny nose and sneezing. What sets this virus apart from the cold is how it affects the respiratory, or breathing, system. Enterovirus 68 is causing extreme wheezing and difficulty breathing. For children who already have asthma, these symptoms are especially bad.
So far, the virus has infected children in Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma, Iowa, Missouri, Illinois, Ohio, Kentucky, George and North Carolina. All have reached out to the CDC for assistance in fighting this bug. Like the common cold, this virus is likely to spread, and could reach other states.
Battling the Bug
There is no treatment or medication for this illness, but by taking proper health precautions, the virus can be stopped. Here's what you can do to fight bugs like Enterovirus 68.
- Wash your hands often with soap, or use an alcohol-based hand-sanitizer.
- Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth.
- Cover your mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash. If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into the crook of your elbow, not your hand.
- Stay home from school if you are sick.
Chicago's park visitors may have to find replacements for peanuts and Cracker Jacks next time they go out to the ball game. As part of its 100% Healthier Snack Vending Initiative, the Windy City is replacing vending machine foods with healthier snacks. Both park staff and park visitors have responded positively to these changes, according to new study by Northwestern University. Average per-machine sales increased from $84 to $371 during the first 15 months of the initiative. "Improving access to more healthful foods through machine-vended snacks is a strategy that has demonstrated success in schools and worksites," researchers wrote in the report published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Snack Swap
Chicago is home to approximately 2.7 million people and the largest city park system in the United States. Through after-school and summer programs, the Chicago Park District serves almost 200,000 children each year. The vending machine initiative is supported by Chicago's Healthy Kids, Healthy Communities project (HKHC). The organization believes parks should be a place to promote wellness outside of school, not just through exercise, but also through healthy eating.
The initiative began in August 2010, when 98 new snack vending machines were placed in indoor field houses throughout the park system. Each machine was required to meet a list of nutritional standards. Among those requirements include snacks that cannot contain more than two servings per package, and must be free of trans fats. No more than 35% of their total weight can be from sugar and sweeteners, but natural fruit juice is allowed. These new snacks include granola bars, baked chips and fruit snacks, in replacement of cookies and candy. All munchies must be priced at $1, as not to allow consumers' decisions to be affected by cost.
Positive Reviews
Of the 10 Chicago parks sampled over the course of 15 months, 88% of surveyed patrons and 100% of the interviewed staff reported liking the healthier snacks. Children purchased nearly half of the snacks in this sample.
Chicago is one of the first cities in the country to make this movement to improve park food environments for kids. Over the past few years, the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced new nutritional standards for school lunches for kids. It was the first major nutritional overhaul of school meals in more than 15 years. Now, the struggle to keep kids healthy is expanding beyond school cafeterias.
A big bowl of milk and cereal can be a great way to start the day. Many breakfast cereals and snack bars contain nutrients that help our bodies stay strong and healthy. But some of these foods are packed with too many vitamins and minerals. According to a new study by the Environmental Working Group (EWG), this extra fortification may be more harmful than helpful. The EWG is a nonprofit group that promotes public health.
Vitamin Overload
Many kids' food makers advertise products that are rich in vitamins and minerals. This appeals to families who want to eat healthy. But more isn't always better when it comes to certain nutrients. The EWG studied 1,556 breakfast cereals and 1,025 snack bars and found large amounts of vitamin A, niacin, and zinc. Among the products the group tested, 114 cereals contained 30% more of these three nutrients than what is recommended by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Of the tested snack bars, 27 have more than 50% of the recommended amounts of vitamin A, niacin, and zinc.
Nutrition facts listed on packages are based on recommended daily values for adults, who are physically larger and require more vitamins and minerals. So when kids eat these cereals and snack bars, they are getting more nutrients than they need.
Nutrients in Action
Vitamin A, niacin, and zinc are best in fresh and unprocessed foods that are in their natural state. Vitamin A helps you see at night. It occurs naturally in eggs, meat, cantaloupe, carrots, and spinach. Niacin is a vitamin that helps our bodies make energy. It is found in foods like fish, seeds, and peanuts, as well as in whole grains like wheat and brown rice. Zinc helps our bodies fight off infection. It is found in many foods, including wheat-based products, meats, beans, and nuts.
Children typically eat more than one serving of cereal or snack bars a day, in addition to taking vitamin supplements. Eating large amounts of these nutrients can be dangerous to kids' health. Too much vitamin A can cause liver damage, and high levels of zinc can disrupt the body's natural immunity, or power to fight infection.
The EWG authors are calling for the FDA to make changes to its guidelines for nutrient intake and revise its daily values to match kids' diets.
Vitamins and minerals help our bodies grow and stay healthy. That's why it's important to read labels and think about the foods we eat every day. If you have questions about the right amount of vitamins and minerals for your body, talk to an adult.
If man's best friend is a dog, then who is a dog's best friend? That would be Rover. Or Glow, or Ivan, or Raina. These four canines recently donated valuable pints of blood to their fellow pooches. And they did it without having to travel far from home: They visited an animal bloodmobile.
Similar to the Red Cross vehicles for humans, the University of Pennsylvania's traveling veterinary lab goes to where the donors are to make it easier to give. The bloodmobile makes weekly rounds through suburban Philadelphia and New Jersey. Kym Marryott is manager of Penn's Animal Blood Bank. "You don't really think about it until you actually need it," Marryott told the Associated Press. "Just like in people, dogs need blood too."
Helping Paws
Like humans, not every dog is eligible to donate blood. The pooches are screened for health first. Dogs must have the correct blood type, weigh at least 55 pounds and be younger than 8 years old. About 150 dogs participate in the program. Each donates three or four pints a year, which can help animals suffering from illnesses like cancer or an accidental trauma like being hit by a car. One pint can save up to three dogs.
Owners volunteer their pet for the short procedure, which requires no sedation. That's when a patient is given medicine to calm him or her down. Marryott said it's the dog that ultimately chooses to lie still and give. "If (the dog) wanted to get up and leave, he could," she said. "But they're really good about it, they trust their owner."
Sandy Lucas brought her 7-year-old black German shepherd, Raina, to the bloodmobile last week, when it was parked at a strip mall in Harleysville, Pennsylvania. The Pottstown, Pennsylvania, resident said she wouldn't have braved highway traffic and city parking problems to take the dog to Penn Vet's animal hospital in downtown Philadelphia, which is twice as far from her home. But the bloodmobile made it convenient to find out if Raina could donate, she said. "I was very, very thrilled that she had the right blood that was needed to help another dog out," said Lucas. "We'll definitely do it again."
Just like people, the furry donors get a snack and a heart-shaped "U of P Blood Donor" sticker immediately after giving. In addition, they receive free blood screenings and dog food to take home.
Officials at Penn's School of Veterinary Medicine said they don't know of any other animal bloodmobiles operating in the U. S. And what about a catmobile? Felines are a bit less cooperative. They need to be sedated in order to give blood, so Penn does that only at its animal hospital.
The Philadelphia-based school does more than help animals. The Penn Vet Working Dog Center trains dogs to use their keen sense of smell to help humans. The dogs can learn to locate bombs, sniff out allergens, and even identify cancer. Last summer, TFK visited the center to learn more about these hardworking dogs.
On Tuesday, the White House and the U. S. Department of Agriculture laid out new limits for promoting junk food and sugary drinks in schools. The rules ban advertisements for unhealthy foods on school grounds during the school day. The ad ban includes sugary drinks that account for more than 90 percent of unhealthy ads in school. An ad for regular Coca-Cola, for example, would be banned from a scoreboard at a high school football game. But, ads for Diet Coke and Dasani water, owned by the same company, would be allowed.
The new rules are part of the first lady's "Let's Move" campaign to fight childhood obesity. Her goal is to get kids to eat healthier -- like the new rules that require healthier cafeteria food. The marketing limits come after new USDA regulations that put a limit on the calorie, fat, sugar, and sodium in most school food items. The healthier food rules are criticized by people who think the government should not control what kids eat and by some students who don't like the healthier foods.
"The idea here is simple -- our classrooms should be healthy places," First Lady Michelle Obama said in a statement. "Because when parents are working hard to teach their kids healthy habits at home, their work shouldn't be undone by unhealthy messages at school."
A Healthy Message
According to the USDA, companies are spending $149 million a year on marketing to kids in schools. But, the big industry giants like Coca-Cola and PepsiCo are supporting the new rules. Many have already started to advertise their own healthier products. For schools, junk food ads like a Coca-Cola scoreboard could be taken down over time -- not replaced overnight. The next time the school needed to replace its scoreboard, it would have to get one with a healthier message.
"The new standards ensure that schools remain a safe place where kids can learn and where the school environment promotes healthy choices," Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsak said in a statement.
The new USDA plans announced today also aim to help feed hungry kids in need. They would allow the highest-poverty schools to serve breakfast and lunch to all students for free. The White House says that will help feed about 9 million kids in 22,000 schools. The rules will help guide schools on ways to create standards for foods and physical activity. They would require parents and the community to be involved in those decisions.
Good News
Obesity rates among toddlers in the U. S. have dropped greatly over the last 10 years. According to a survey done by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), there has been a 43 percent decrease. The obesity rate for American children in the two to five-year-old age group dropped from 14 percent in 2003-2004 to just above 8 percent in 2011-12.
"This confirms that at least for kids, we can turn the tide and begin to reverse the obesity epidemic," said CDC Director Tom Frieden.
The exact reasons for the drop in obesity are unknown. But, the CDC mentions less sugary drinks and better nutrition and physical education programs at day care centers as possible causes.
First Lady Michelle Obama responded to the CDC report saying she was "thrilled at the progress we've made over the last few years in obesity rates among our youngest Americans."
How often do you exercise? A new study finds that most kids ages 12 to 15 aren't getting enough physical activity. The results are based on about 800 kids. As part of the study, the young teens tracked and reported on their own activity levels, and took physical exams.
U. S. fitness guidelines recommend an hour or more of physical activity every day. According to the study, only 1 in 4 U. S. kids meet the recommendation.
"It's definitely very concerning to see that our kids are engaging in such a limited amount of physical activity each day," said Dr. Stephen Pont. He is an expert on children's health and obesity.
No Sweat
Few kids in the survey met the guidelines for physical activity that raises the heart rate and makes you breathe harder. However, most of those kids said they did at least an hour of exercise at that level during the previous week. Overall, about 25% said they got an hour of that kind of strenuous exercise every day. Kids also reported on which activities they did most often outside of school gym class -- basketball for boys and running for girls.
The study found that obese teens were less active than normal-weight girls and boys. Overweight girls were slightly less active than normal-weight girls, but levels were similar among overweight and normal-weight boys. The study also says that the overall obesity rate for children aged 2 to 19 is 17%, or about 12.5 million kids.
Recess Required
"There's always room for improvement," said health expert Tala Fakhouri, who was the lead author of the study. She also said the results provide useful information to help with fitness campaigns such as Let's Move, which was launched by First Lady Michelle Obama in 2010. To inspire kids to eat right and get in shape, the First Lady visits schools and holds exercise events. She also calls on schools to offer regular gym classes.
Pont said research suggests kids who get physical education at school may get better grades. He said schools can do more to help by not cutting recess and giving kids more time for physical activity.
Letizia Barbetta wrote the book Kylie's Special Treat. It is about a princess who has food allergies. The idea for the book came from her daughter, Sofia, when she was 6. Sofia, who is now 12, is allergic to milk, eggs, and many fruits.
TFK talked to the Barbettas about the book and its message for kids.
Why did you write Kylie's Special Treat?
The first reason was to help my daughter Sofia feel better about having food allergies. It was her first year in kindergarten and we had never met anyone with severe allergies like hers. She realized that when it came to food, things had to be done very differently for her. One night, as I was tucking her into bed, she asked me if there was ever a princess with food allergies. This question brought tears to my eyes. I told her that, yes, of course, there was and that I would tell her about this princess another time.
That night, I knew I wanted to create a comforting story of a character Sofia could relate to, someone who has multiple food allergies, yet is happy and lives happily ever after. This idea of a "princess with food allergies" was truly Sofia's! I just had to bring it to life. But I had to make sure it was not all this princess was about. She had to love doing something that made her happy... like art and baking, which at the time was what Sofia loved (and still loves!).
I made the story into a book so all children could benefit from it. Unfortunately, food allergies among children are on the rise. This seemed like an easy and fun way to explain living with food allergies to children who don't have them. I also wanted children to know that everyone is special in her own way and anyone can have food allergies... even a princess!
What is the book's main message? 
The main message of the book is that you can have food allergies and live happily ever after too! Living with food allergies is not a problem; it's just a different way of life. It is not who you are, it is just a part of your life. It should not stop you from believing and going after your dreams. It just means that when it comes to food you need to be super careful. It's easy to be "safe" by always be prepared, bringing safe food with you and having emergency medication and information handy at all times is the easiest way. 
Do you plan to write another children's book about food allergies?
Yes, I am writing another food allergy story with the main character being a boy with multiple allergies.
What should kids know about food allergies, and how to best support friends who have them? 
If you know someone with food allergies, please don't treat them differently. Help them feel included in all activities. Remember that he or she is just like you, but just not able to eat everything you can eat. A food allergy is nothing to joke about. It is serious and needs to be treated seriously. Please respect the fact that some things need to be done differently in the classroom. Don't make your friend feel bad about this; it is not your friend's fault. Please help keep your friend stay safe by listening to your teachers when they ask that certain foods not be brought to school for snack or lunch or parties.
Sofia, how do you feel about having food allergies?
I feel good about eating healthy, but I do feel like I am missing out sometimes. I feel hopeful and confident that I will outgrow my allergies someday. I already outgrew peanut and tree-nut allergies.
What is most challenging thing about having food allergies?
The most challenging thing about having food allergies for me is being around others while they are eating food that I am allergic to. I feel sad about it sometimes. When I am around people who don't know about my allergies, I don't feel comfortable with my food even if I brought it from home. They can contaminate it when they don't realize it. Another challenge is knowing that the places I go will not have anything safe for me to eat. So we have to make sure we always have time to prepare safe food, and keep it warm or cold.
How did you help your mom with her book?
My sister and I helped my mom choose the book cover and the colors. I gave suggestions on illustrations, like adding more of the fairies and some details.
How do you feel about the book?
I feel happy and proud! I am glad there is a book like this for kids like me. It shows that food allergies don't have to stop you from doing the things you love. I like showing that even a princess can have allergies. I like that I was the inspiration for the book. I love art and I love to bake just like Kylie!
Anything else that you would share with our readers?
For the kids with food allergies I would tell them don't let your allergies get in the way of the things you like to do. It is not so bad. It is just different for us when it comes to food. Be happy, be positive, and always be safe!
For the kids who don't have food allergies please don't joke about them, and help keep others safe. Don't leave people out just because they can't eat the same foods as you. Find a way to include them. Think about how you would feel if your friends were leaving you out. Please be a good friend.
The average American child spends more than 20 hours a week in school. That means kids are doing a good part of their daily eating there as well. Here's an update on changes that state and federal health officials are making to ensure that kids are feeding their bodies as well as their brains.
Better Breakfast 
The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 gave the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and states the power to make five major changes to school nutrition over time. It allowed the government to give an extra six cents per meal for healthier lunch options. 
The first part of the updated School Breakfast Program will start this year. The program will allow students to get low-fat milk and proper portions for their age. Fifty percent of the breakfast grains served are required to be whole grains. By the next school year, 100% of them should be whole grains.
Healthier School Lunch
During the last school year, new school lunch standards limited the calories at lunch. Lunch calories had to be between 550 and 650 for elementary schools, 600 and 700 for middle schools, and 750 to 850 for high schools. Full-fat milk was cut from the menu and more whole grains, fruits, and vegetables were added. Many students complained that the low calorie meals left them hungry. In response, the USDA allowed schools more flexibility in meat and grain servings. For now, schools continue to have this leeway as health officials work on the lunch requirements.
"The hope is that now that schools have had a year with the new standards, there will start to be more innovation and variety in the offerings," says Jessica Black, project director for The Pew Charitable Trusts Kids' Safe and Healthful Foods Project.
No-Guilt Snacks
The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act recognized that students have access to unhealthy snacks, both in school cafeterias and vending machines. Last June, the USDA issued new nutrition standards for snacks that include more fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy, whole grains, and lean proteins as the central ingredients. The new requirements also limit the calories, sugar, fat, and sodium these snacks contain. The change applies to all foods and beverages sold on school grounds during the school day. These snacks can't contain more than 200 calories per item, for example, and sodas and sports drinks sold in high schools must contain fewer than 60 calories in a 12-ounce serving. Elementary and middle schools can only sell water, 100% fruit or vegetable juice, and low-fat or fat-free milk.
These changes aren't expected to be in place until next year but many schools will start to follow the requirements this fall. "Although the snack food changes are not required this year, we are encouraging schools to start towards them so by next year it's easy," says Black. "It is great for everyone to know the standards are out there, and better prepare for them." 
We live in a sweet world. The average American kid consumes more than 20 teaspoons of sugar per day, and adults eat 50% more sugar today than they did in the 1970s. We all know that too much sugar isn't good for you. But did we know it could be toxic? A team of researchers at the University of Utah used mice to conduct a study on the negative effects of sugar. They found it could have serious effects on people's health.
Sugar Symptoms
During the 58-week-long study, mice were fed a diet containing 25% more sugar. This percentage is equivalent to a healthy human diet along with three cans of soda daily. The team found that these mice were twice as likely to die as mice fed a similar diet without the sugar. Though the mice did not show signs of obesity or high blood pressure, male mice were 26% less territorial and produced 25% fewer offspring than the other mice.
Scientists often use mice for research because they have a similar genetic structure to humans. "Since most substances that are toxic in mice are also toxic in people, it's likely that those underlying physical problems that cause those mice to have increased mortality are at play in people," says study author James Ruff of the University of Utah. Findings from this study reveal negative effects that are not as detectable as weight gain or heart problems. Sugar can contribute to long-term changes in the body that can alter development and even shorten lives.
Reading Between the Lines
Different types of sugar have different effects on the human body. Some of the sugar we consume comes from foods we might expect -- candy, soda, and cookies. But much of the sugar that we eat is hidden. Food companies add large amounts of sugar to items we may not classify as sweets. Some pasta sauces, crackers, and even brands of ketchup have large amounts of sugar. To help cut down on extra sugar consumption, nutrition experts suggest looking at the ingredients on food packages. Ingredients that end in ose, such as sucrose and fructose, are sugars. So are those that include the word syrup. Cutting sugar out of the American diet altogether may be difficult. But making the effort to control our nation's sugar cravings will provide for a truly sweeter future.
Do you have a sweet tooth? According to a recent report by the research organization NPD Group, Americans are cutting back on sugary foods and drinks. Today, on average, kids are eating and drinking sugary sweets 126 times less than they did in 1998.
"This change is about the family," NPD Vice President Harry Balzer told TFK. "Families are altering their eating patterns."
Sweet Survey
Since March 1, 1980, the NPD Group has been surveying households across the United States about how they eat. The study includes 5,000 people in 2,000 households. Families taking part in the survey keep a journal of their daily diets for two weeks. During that time, each individual keeps a tally on how many sweets and sugary treats he or she consumes. 
The study shows that a large percentage of Americans still satisfy their sweet tooth, but in smaller amounts. Nearly 98% of the adults and children surveyed still have at least one sweet, but only every two weeks. "It's not a question of whether or not you're going to have a sweet," said Balzer. "It's a matter of how frequently you're going to have a sweet." While there is no formal definition for what classifies a "sweet," NPD selected 20 products to conduct the study. The list is expansive, ranging from cookies and brownies to fruit juice and yogurt. Kids today are eating cookies 8 times less than they did in 1998, and drinking fruit juice 16 times less.
Downward Trend
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the percentage of obese kids ages 6 to 19 tripled in the U. S. between 1980 and 2000. About 9 million children were excessively overweight. Today, obesity rates are not falling, but they aren't growing, either. "There are three points to every trend," said Balzer. "There's the movement upward, the leveling off, and the decline. Right now we're [at the leveling off point]."
Schools nationwide are doing their part to put childhood obesity on a downward trend. Fried food has disappeared from many cafeteria menus. Whole-wheat bread has replaced white bread. Water and low-fat milk have replaced sugary beverages such as fruit punch, sports drinks, and soda. Many schools have also banned junk food and now require healthier snack options in their vending machines. These efforts, both at home and in school, are slowly putting kids on the right track for healthy eating.
A new study shows that children who electronically pre-order their lunch are more likely to make healthier meal choices than students who pick and choose as they go through the cafeteria line.
For the study, which was published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics, researchers from Cornell University looked at the choices made by 272 students from two schools in New York. The four-week study focused on students in grades 1 through 5. When the students pre-ordered their lunches, 29% were more likely to pick a healthier main course, compared to 15% when there was no pre-order option.
Researchers say that pre-ordering lunch can help prevent distractions like sights and smells from influencing kids' decisions and leading them to make unhealthy meal choices.
Jessica Donze Black, project director for The Pew Charitable Trusts Kids' Safe and Healthful Foods Project, says the overall food environment makes a big difference in the choices students make.
"It is not just what is in the meals, but what's in the rest of the school food environment," she says. "What's in the vending machine, what's in the school's store. It's important all those foods are also healthy."
Ongoing Changes 
In January 2012 the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) revised school meal guidelines and required more fruits and vegetables, whole grains and stricter calorie limits.
The new guidelines were met with mixed reviews. Some children complained that the calorie limits didn't fill them up. In response, the USDA allowed the schools more freedom in determining meat and grain servings. But there's still debate about the restrictions.
Black says some of the most successful changes in lunchroom eating habits have been in schools that include students in the menu decision-making process. "Giving children an opportunity to taste-test allows them to provide feedback and an opportunity to show their preferences," she says.
Vegetarian Lunches
On April 30, Public School 244 in Queens, New York, became one of the first schools in the nation to adopt an all-vegetarian menu. It has been serving items like tofu wraps and vegetarian chili since going all-veggie earlier this year.
P. S. 244 has just over 400 students in pre-kindergarten through third grade. The school, which wanted to offer the children healthy food options, started serving a vegetarian lunch three times a week. Later in the year, they increased it to four times a week before making the switch to an all-vegetarian menu every day.
"We discovered early on that our kids were gravitating toward our vegetarian offerings," principal Robert Groff said. "And we kept expanding the program to meet the demand."
As researchers continue to pinpoint the most successful strategies for healthier students -- and schools continue to introduce them -- there's hope that children's weight and energy will reach healthy levels now and in the future.
Gymnast Dominique Dawes flipped her way into the history books when she became the first African-American gymnast to win an individual medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games. That year, she also picked up a gold medal as a member of the "Magnificent Seven" team. Since retiring from the sport in 2000, Dawes has devoted her time to helping people live a healthier lifestyle.
In 2010, President Obama named Dawes co-chair of the President's Council on Fitness Sports and Nutrition (PCFSN). Earlier this year, Dawes helped First Lady Michelle Obama launch the Let's Move! Active Schools campaign, a program designed to help school leaders get students moving before, during and after school. "Everyone [on PCFSN] is passionate about this cause," Dawes told TFK. "They want the nation to be healthier."
Today, Dawes is hosting in a live webcast for students and teachers on how schools can get involved in the new campaign. Through a partnership with Discovery Education, the webcast will broadcast live from Capitol Hill Montessori School, in Washington, D. C., from 1:00 p. m. to 2:00p. m. Eastern Time. It will feature a special message from PCFSN co-chair and NFL Quarterback Drew Brees and a physical activity break from Olympic gold medalist Allyson Felix. Classrooms can register for the free webcast at Discovery Education Live. A video will also be available to view after the event.
Recently, TFK caught up with Dawes to learn about her work on the PCFSN.
May is National Physical Fitness and Sports Month. What is the goal of this month?
Physical activity is important to have at the top of your mind all the time, not just for this month. We want to educate people about the importance of physical activity and make it easy to understand what physical activity looks and sounds like, and also the benefits of being active. That's why I'm so excited to take part in Discovery Communications webcast because I'm going to have an opportunity to really get kids up and moving and active and help them understand that physical activity doesn't have to be work, it can be fun.
Why should classrooms tune in to the webcast?
It's an opportunity for young people to learn from some of their sports heroes. Also, we have a chef, the First Family's personal trainer and a pediatrician [participating]. There are so many people that have dedicated their lives to helping the nation get healthier. I want more schools to sign up and be a part of this.
Can you talk about Let's Move! Active Schools?
It's really a comprehensive program that's going to help kids as well as teachers, principals, administrators and parents work together as a team to get our kids moving again. The amount of physical activity [kids should be getting] is 60 minutes a day, five days a week. This is going to be another great way that kids can get engaged and get those wonderful benefits of being physically active.
Why is it so important for kids to be active during the school day?
Kids are naturally equipped to move. Not a lot of kids can sit still [for hours], and kids are in school on average seven hours a day. So if they get out and get moving and burn some of that energy that they have all balled up in them, they will be able to focus and concentrate a lot better in the classroom. Statistics have shown that kids who are physically active or participating in competitive sports tend to do better academically, have a higher self-esteem and more self-confidence.
What is your favorite way to get active?
Jumping rope is one of my favorite activities. It's something that I did when I was training for all three of my Olympics. I traveled many times with a jump rope because I can jump rope anywhere. It's a great way to get my heart pumping, and oddly enough, exerting and using all that energy somehow gives me more energy.
I always tell parents to put your kids in a number of different sports and find out what your kid loves to do and where they might have some talent. You have to experiment with a number of different sports. But gymnastics is a beautiful sport that will help kids with whatever sport that they may choose to pursue later on in life, and it's great to help them work on their flexibility coordination and strength.
What has been the highlight of your experience as co-chair on the President's Council so far?
Hearing success stories. There have been a number of schools that have already signed up for Let's Move! Active Schools. Hearing how so many teachers, administrators and physical educators are being creative in finding ways to get their kids physically active is very exciting. Some schools don't have gyms, yet teachers have created breaks during the school day to get kids up and moving. Those are people that are thinking outside the box, which is what we definitely need.
Are you a kid who enjoys cooking? Would you like to visit the White House? There's a contest just for you!
For the second year in a row, First Lady Michelle Obama is hosting the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge. The contest asks kids ages 8 to 12 and their guardians to submit original lunch recipes that are nutritious, delicious and affordable. One winner from each of the 50 states, plus the U. S. territories, Washington, D. C., and Puerto Rico, will be invited to attend the Kids' State Dinner at the White House, where winning recipes will be served.
The First Lady announced the contest this week as part of her Let's Move! campaign. "Last year's young chefs impressed and inspired me with their creativity, and I can't wait to welcome a whole new group to the White House this summer and taste their creations," she said in an announcement. "So kids, let's get cooking!"
Last year, more than 1,200 kids entered the contest. The 54 finalists enjoyed a three-course meal in the White House's East Room, where fancy parties are thrown. Winning dishes included a fiesta casserole from Idaho, a rainbow salad from Colorado and a yummy summer soup from Alabama. Now the question is, will any of last year's winners be back for seconds?
What's in a Winning Meal?
The goal of the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge is to put together a collection of healthy recipes written by kids, for kids. The contest is a partnership between the White House, the departments of Education and Agriculture and the recipe website Epicurious.
Contest judges will look for lunches that are healthy, tasty and affordable. Meals should have items from each of the food groups, including fruit, vegetables, whole grains, protein and low-fat dairy products. The foods can be combined into one recipe or used to create a meal that includes a main dish and side dishes.
Tanya Steel is the Editor-In-Chief of Epicurious. Last year, she helped choose the winning recipes. Her advice for kids? "Be imaginative and creative and think seasonally!" she told TFK. "You don't need to be complicated. The most important thing is to have fun!"
On Monday, State Supreme Court Justice Milton Tingling struck down New York City's ban on big sugary drinks just hours before it was supposed to take effect. The law would have banned the sale of sugared beverages larger than 16 oz. at New York restaurants, mobile food carts, sports arenas and movie theaters.
Tingling said the ban would have left people with many other ways to consume sugary drinks. "The loopholes in this rule effectively defeat the stated purpose of this rule," he wrote.
Although the ban was widely supported by health professionals, it was not popular with food retailers or many city residents. They asked, why single out sugared sodas, when there are many reasons why people are overweight? And if sugared beverages are being targeted, why not take stronger measures against other sources of sugar, such as candy and other sweets?
The American Beverage Association (ABA) and other opponents of the rule supported the judge's decision. "The court ruling provides a sigh of relief to New Yorkers and thousands of small businesses in New York City that would have been harmed by this unpopular ban," an ABA spokesperson said.
Health in the Big Apple
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg led the ban on large drinks. He aimed to cut obesity rates in the U. S., where at least two-thirds of American adults are considered overweight. Bloomberg says the city will appeal the judge's decision. "We believe the judge is totally in error in how he interpreted the law, and we are confident we will win on appeal," Bloomberg said.
More than half of New York City adults and nearly 40 percent of the city's public elementary and middle school students are considered overweight.
New York City's Board of Health members believe that banning mega-sized drinks is an important step toward helping consumers not only to drink fewer calories, but may also encourage people to make other healthy changes to their diet. The board reviewed data showing that sugared drinks make up 43 percent of the added sugar in the average American diet. Now, with big drinks back on store shelves, New Yorkers will make their own choices about how to stay healthy.
What do you think? Should the government ban large sugary drinks to help consumers make healthier choices? Or should people be allowed make their own choices about beverage size? Vote in the TFK poll below!
On Friday, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released two proposals to improve food safety. The regulations are a response to a series of recent food-borne illnesses. The FDA hopes these new rules will prevent problems with food in the earliest phase of production, before the contaminated food could cause consumers to get sick. "We have one of the safest food supplies in the world," said Dr. Margaret Hamburg, the commissioner of the FDA, in a press conference. "But we have to stop food borne illnesses before they start."
Bad Bacteria
Over the past decade, food-safety issues have caused many people to get sick. Foods like spinach, ground beef and cantaloupe have been recalled, or sent back to producers, because they were found to contain germs and bacteria that cause illness.
Among the most common problems are salmonella and E. coli, dangerous bacteria that cause stomach pain and food poisoning. Often these sicknesses occur when food is undercooked or improperly prepared. While not all illnesses are reported, the FDA estimates that nearly 130,000 Americans a year are hospitalized for food-related problems.
Clean Greens
The two new rules proposed by the FDA are called the Preventative Controls for Human Food and Standards for Produce Safety. Each rule is described in detail on the FDA's website. Readers can submit comments, which the FDA will use as feedback to make future adjustments to the proposal.
The first rule demands that manufacturers selling food in the U. S. must have formal plans for preventing contamination and for fixing problems when they occur. This regulation applies to food produced in the U. S. and overseas.
The second rule is specific to foods that are eaten raw, like salad greens and fruit. It requires strict standards for growing, harvesting, packing and holding fruits and vegetables. Workers must take extra care with washing produce and making sure the materials used in growing soils, like fertilizers and manure, are safe and free of contaminants. The processing and farming equipment used for food production also must be properly sanitized.
The FDA believes these new rules will not just improve Americans' health and well being, but will also make a positive economic impact. The regulations could lead to major savings in medical costs for people who get sick from eating contaminated food. They could also cut back on the amount of money spent on the recall of contaminated products.
If manufacturers are able to fix problems at the source, they will prevent future issues. But putting the proposal into action will take time and money. "This is just the beginning," says Sandy Eskin, director of an organization called The Safe Food Campaign. "There is more stuff right behind it in line for approval."
For decades, childhood obesity rates have been on the rise. Now some U. S. cities, including Philadelphia, New York City and Los Angeles, are seeing progress in their fight against fat. Declining childhood obesity rates have also been reported in parts of Mississippi, the state with the highest obesity rate in the nation.
The first drops in the number of overweight children came in a September report by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The foundation works to improve health for Americans. New York City showed a 5.5% drop in the number of overweight children from 2007 to 2011. Philadelphia showed a 4.7% drop, and Los Angeles a 3% drop.
Making the Effort
From 1980 to 2000, the percentage of obese U. S. kids aged 6 to 19 tripled. About 9 million children were excessively overweight. Being overweight can lead to serious health problems, including heart disease, stroke, diabetes, cancer and high blood pressure. Type 2 diabetes, once considered an adult disease, has increased greatly in young people.
In 2011, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) began a project to combat childhood obesity. The project's goal is to find ways to make healthy changes in a community's schools, food stores, parks and other places. 
"Obese children are more likely to have asthma, depression, diabetes, and other serious and costly health problems," said CDC Director Thomas R. Frieden in a statement. "This project will help figure out ways our children can grow up to lead long, healthy and productive lives."
Healthy Choices
The cities and states with declining childhood obesity rates have followed the CDC's suggestions. Philadelphia works with an organization called the Food Trust to connect schools with local farms and bring fresh vegetables to cafeterias. New York City has required chain restaurants to post calorie information on their menus. Mississippi created a program called "Fruits & Veggies: More Matters" to teach kids how to add healthy foods to their daily diets.
Schools nationwide are doing their part. Fried food has disappeared from many cafeteria menus. Whole-wheat bread has replaced white bread. Drinks like water and low-fat milk have replaced sugary beverages, including fruit punch, sports drinks and soda. Many schools have banned junk food and require healthier snack options in vending machines.
Jim Marks of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the group that issued the obesity report, thinks the message is clear. "Any community that makes these kind of changes over a few years will see their children get healthier," he told TIME's Alexandra Sifferlin. "They will see these improvements and, we hope, more over time."
Fast food is known for being convenient. But when it comes to nutrition, it is not considered to be the best choice. McDonald's says they want to change that. In July 2011, the company announced a plan to provide customers with healthier options. One change since then has been the addition of apple slices to Happy Meals.
Now, the fast-food chain is enlisting kids' help to make changes to their kid's meals, which they call Happy Meals. Sarah Ralston, 11, and Elanya Saley, 9, won a contest to become honorary Happy Meal chefs. Their job is to help the company's executive chef, Dan Coudreaut, create a healthy new Happy Meal option. "I want to make sure that [kids] are being active and healthy," Sarah told TFK.
Kids Pitch In
At the company's headquarters in Oak Brook, Illinois, the two girls started by experimenting with pocket food -- a term used for food items that have a filling. They made turnovers stuffed with broccoli and cheese, empanadas packed with chicken and vegetables and ravioli made with meat and spinach.
Sarah and Elanya started with pocket foods because it is easy to put vegetables in pocket food. If you can grow all the vegetables in one place and put them in the foods in one place, it's possible to then ship everything out to the thousands of McDonald's locations, Coudreaut explained.
According to Coudreaut, making changes to the Happy Meal can be challenging. Even adding apple slices required a great deal of planning. "With 14,000 restaurants, that is a really hard thing to do," said Coudreaut.
Still, Coudreaut hopes to make many more changes, with the goal of making the meals more nutritious. "We aren't stopping at apples," he said.
Is sleep important for children? A new study says yes.
A new study published this week in the journal Pediatrics shows that children who do not get enough sleep have less control over emotions and are less focused at school.
As a whole, Americans do not get enough sleep. The National Sleep Foundation recommends 10 to 11 hours of shut-eye per night for children ages 5 to 12. A study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this year found that about 41 million American workers get less than six hours of sleep per night. Now health experts worry that adults are passing their poor sleeping habits down to their children.
Reut Gruber is a psychologist and lead author of the new study. In the study, Gruber and other experts either added or subtracted one hour of sleep for healthy children ages 7 to 11. They observed the children over five nights. The goal was to see if small changes in the amount of sleep could affect a child's behavior.
"Nobody became a genius, and nobody became crazy," she said. "But the findings show that in children small changes can make a big difference, and that is why this is meaningful."
Sleeping on the Job
Before the survey began, students were asked to sleep the same amount of hours as they normally would. Their teachers were asked to score the children on thoughtfulness, touchiness and emotional reactions. After five nights of the kids' sleep changes, the teachers were asked to take the survey again. Compared with their original scores, those who slept one hour less had worse behavior scores than those who were allowed to sleep an hour more. Students with less sleep were more cranky, frustrated and had more problems paying attention. The children with more sleep showed improvement in these areas.
The scientists chose to study kids in their homes instead of inside a lab because they wanted to measure how everyday changes might affect children's behavior in the classroom. One more movie or one less game played before bed can change the way children focus and work with their teachers and classmates, says Gruber.
If less sleep leads to a drop in attention in class, children may miss out on learning and chances to be creative. If they are easily irritated and frustrated because their bodies and brains are tired, they may not learn as much either, says Gruber.
More Sleep Science
In earlier research, Gruber and her team looked at children who were at different stages on the attention-deficit and hyperactivity disorder spectrum. In a study, parents were asked to put these kids to bed about an hour later than they normally would. The children completed attention tests both before and after the sleep change. After the study, two-thirds of kids who were on the border of having a disease were diagnosed as having the disease. It was triggered by lack of sleep.
"Between these two studies, to me this connection feels like a real finding," says Gruber. Sleep, it seems, is just as important as diet and exercise in keeping children's bodies and minds healthy.
Good night!
On September 13, the New York City Health Department became the first in the nation to ban the sale of sugared beverages larger than 16 oz. at restaurants, mobile food carts, sports arenas and movie theaters. The ban includes sodas and sweetened tea. The law is aimed at cutting obesity rates in the U. S., where at least two-thirds of American adults are considered overweight. While the ban is widely supported by health professionals, it's not popular with food retailers or many city residents.
The ruling, which takes effect in March 2013, will prevent restaurants and cafeterias from selling sugared beverages in cups or containers larger than 16 ounces -- about the size of a typical small soda. Supermarkets and convenience stores -- including 7-Eleven, which sells the jumbo-sized Big Gulp -- are not included in the law. And the ban doesn't apply to fruit juices, alcoholic beverages, diet sodas or dairy-based drinks like milkshakes.
Health in the Big Apple
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg led the ban on large drinks. More than half of New York City adults and nearly 40 percent of the city's public elementary and middle school students are considered overweight. "We are dealing with a crisis... we need to act on this," said Board of Health member Deepthiman Gowda, a professor of medicine at Columbia University, the Associated Press reported. Bloomberg has noted that the ban doesn't prevent people from buying several small sodas at a time if they wish, but health officials hope that the inconvenience will eventually get people to cut down on their use of sugared drinks.
New York City's Board of Health members say that banning mega-sized drinks is an important step toward helping consumers not only to drink fewer calories, but may also encourage people to make other healthy changes to their diet. The board reviewed data showing that sugared drinks make up 43 percent of the added sugar in the average American diet.
Critics of the Ban
Some health officials, as well as the restaurant and beverage industry, are critical of the ban. They ask, why single out sugared sodas, when there are many reasons why people are overweight? And if sugared beverages are being targeted, why not take stronger measures against other sources of sugar, such as candy and other sweets?
Many restaurant owners, fast-food chains and makers of sodas, including Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and McDonald's, are also upset because they say the ban could hurt certain businesses while rewarding others. The groups plan to continue to challenge the ruling, including taking their concerns to court. "We are smart enough to make our own decisions about what to eat and drink," Liz Berman, the chairperson of the New Yorkers for Beverage Choices coalition, said in a statement.
What do you think? Should the government ban large sugary drinks to help consumers make healthier choices? Or should people be allowed make their own choices about beverage size?
"Drink your milk. It's good for you!" You've probably heard that many times, and it's true. Milk contains calcium, which is a necessary nutrient for keeping bones and teeth healthy and strong. The U. S.government even requires milk as part of the National School Lunch Program, saying that students should drink one cup of fat-free or low-fat milk at each meal.
Milk Report
Last Thursday, however, a group of doctors asked the government to remove milk from the lunch program. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine (PCRM) says, "Milk is high in sugar, high in fat and high in animal protein," all of which have negative effects on health. The PCRM says there are better and healthier ways to get calcium such as eating beans, broccoli, cereals and tofu. Orange juice and soymilk that have calcium added to them also supply the nutrient. "One of the only reasons people talk about dairy, or promote it at all, is because it is going to help build strong bones," says Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the PCRM. But milk may not be the best way to get the calcium your body needs.
Of course, calcium is important for healthy bones and teeth, but there are other things that affect your bone strength, such as genes, how much vitamin D you take in and getting an hour's worth of exercise every day.
The Other Side
Some nutritionists disagree with the idea that milk isn't important. Keri Gans, a dietitian, says, "I think it's irresponsible to take this beverage that children enjoy, especially among those who are unable to meet their nutrient needs for the day, and remove it from the lunch line."
The U. S.government is studying the request of the PCRM, but a decision may be a long way off. Meanwhile, Marion Nestle, a professor at New York University, puts it best: "Milk demonstrably has nutrients. Other foods have the same nutrients. It's just a food. Like other foods, too much might be a problem."
You might notice something new in the next few years as you watch Disney programs: Starting in 2015, there won't be any candy, sugary-cereal or fast-food commercials aimed at kids.
The Walt Disney Company on Tuesday became the first major media company to ban ads for junk food on its TV channels, radio stations and websites. It hopes this will stop kids from making poor food choices.
First Lady Michelle Obama called it a "game changer" that is sure to send a message to the rest of the children's-entertainment industry. "Just a few years ago, if you had told me or any other mom or dad in America that our kids wouldn't see a single ad for junk food while they watched their favorite cartoons on a major TV network, we wouldn't have believed you," said the First Lady, who heads a campaign to help stop child obesity.
The ban would apply to Disney XD and Saturday-morning children's programming on Disney-owned ABC stations, as well as Radio Disney and Disney-owned websites aimed at families with young children. In addition, Disney plans to make changes to its kids' menus at theme parks and resorts. Fast-food options will be replaced with healthier choices, such as smoothies, apples, vegetables and yogurt.
What's Out?
In addition to candy bars and fast-food meals, other foods that don't meet Disney's nutritional standards will be banned from the company's kid-targeted media. Any cereal with 10 grams or more of sugar per serving will be off the air. There will be no ads for full meals of more than 600 calories. Juices with high levels of sugar and foods with too much sodium will also be pulled.
Even though many fast-food chains and food companies offer healthier options, like apples and salads, Disney said it could still deny the companies' ads. Leslie Goodman, Disney's senior vice president of corporate citizenship, said a company that wants to advertise will need to show that it offers a range of healthy options.
Nutritional Trend
Disney isn't the only one pushing away unhealthy foods. Last week, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg proposed a ban on drinks over 16 ounces sold in movie theaters, restaurants and convenience stores in the Big Apple. He says large, sugary drinks are partly to blame for obesity.
Getting rid of junk-food ads could make it easier to keep a family on a healthy diet, says Nadine Haskell, a mother of two sons, 8 and 11, from Columbus, Ohio. "If they see a commercial on TV, then the next time we go to the grocery store they'll say they want to try it," said Haskell.
Are you good at preparing healthy meals? Would you like to dine with First Lady Michelle Obama? If you answered yes to both questions, then you should consider entering the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge.
The contest invites kids ages 8 to 12 from across the country to come up with lunch recipes that are both nutritious and delicious. More than 50 winners, including one from each state, will be brought to Washington, D. C., to attend a kids' State Dinner at the White House. What will be served? The winning recipes, of course!
Recipes for Good Health
The First Lady teamed up with the recipe website Epicurious to create the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge. The goal is to develop a collection of healthy recipes for kids, by kids. Winning recipes will be available online.
"We all want to ensure that our kids are eating nutritious, delicious food at every meal," said First Lady Michelle Obama. "With parents and kids all across the country getting creative in the kitchen, I know we'll find healthy meals that every family will enjoy."
A panel of expert judges, including assistant White House chef Sam Kass, will choose the winning recipes. The judges will be on the look out for lunches that are healthy, tasty and affordable. A winning lunch meal should have items from each of the food groups, including fruit, veggies, whole grains, protein and low-fat dairy foods. You could choose to combine them into one recipe or to create a meal that includes a main dish and side dishes.
What you see is what you eat, according to the latest study to confirm that watching TV encourages children to eat more junk food. But the researchers say there may be an easy way to stop unhealthy snacking in front of the tube: put healthier foods within easy reach.
Leah Lipsky and Ronal Iannotti are staff scientists at the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. They worked on the study, which was reported this week in the Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine. The report says that for every hour of television children watch, they are 8% less likely to eat fruit every day, 18% more likely to eat candy, and 16% more likely to eat fast food. Those results are similar to previous studies that have linked TV viewing with unhealthy eating habits among kids.
Encouraging Healthy Snacking
The reasons for the link between watching TV and eating junk food aren't surprising: young people watching TV are exposed to more advertising for unhealthy foods -- such as fast food or sodas -- than commercials for fresh fruits and vegetables. Studies show that kids who watch a lot of TV are more likely to prefer eating foods high in sugar, salt and fat, even when they aren't watching TV. Plus, when children spend more time in front of the screen, they are also less likely to be exercising or engaging in healthy physical activity.
The researchers also found that some kids who snacked in front of the tube increased the amount of fruit they ate. It all depended on what was available and within reach. "Of course, the link was nowhere near as strong as that between TV watching and the increased (eating) of candy, soda and fast food in general," says Lipsky. "But it kind of suggests that if you have other options available -- and don't have the unhealthy options available -- then children might be encouraged to possibly eat more fruit."
That's the message that the Lipsky and Iannotti hope that parents will take away from their report. The study involved more than 12,000 students in grades 5 through 10. The researchers asked the kids about how much time they spent every day watching TV, using the computer or playing video games. They also asked the students to report on how often they consumed various foods, including fruits, vegetables, soda and fast food.
The more TV kids watched, the more unhealthy food they ate. The results suggest that the problem is deeper than kids over-snacking out of boredom while sitting in front of the TV or computer. TV watching can set kids up for a deeper pattern of poor eating habits. When combined with lack of physical activity, this can cause obesity and serious health issues including type 2 diabetes, heart problems and sleep disorders.
Lipsky and Iannotti recommend that parents limit the amount of time kids spend in front of a TV or computer -- the American Academy of Pediatrics suggests no more than two hours a day for children over two years old. The researchers also recommend that parents try to encourage healthier snacking habits during TV and computer time by giving kids healthy snacks such as fruits and nuts.
Schools are still free to pass the potato. On Tuesday, the U. S. Senate voted to block a proposal by the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) that would have limited the amount of potatoes and other starchy vegetables served in schools. The USDA had wanted to make the changes to the federal school lunch program. It would have limited the amount of starchy vegetables to two servings per student per week, or about a cup. And those starchy veggies that are high in carbohydrates would also have been banned from school breakfasts. The limit aimed to reduce the amount of fried potatoes, such as french fries and tater tots, served in schools.
The Senate blocked the USDA's proposal by amending, or changing, a spending bill that included funding for the department. The amendment blocks the USDA from putting any limits on the amount of servings of potatoes or other vegetables in school lunches. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a spud-growing state, sponsored the amendment. "[USDA's] proposed rule would have imposed significant and needless costs on our nation's school districts at a time when they can least afford it," Collins said.
Food Fight
Those in favor of a potato limit say that children get enough potatoes already and should be encouraged to try other vegetables. The group Center for Science in the Public Interest pushed for the restrictions. "USDA's proposal was about helping kids to eat a very wide variety of vegetables, and I think that point has been lost in all this," said the Center's Margo Wootan. "Other vegetables have a hard time competing with potatoes."
The proposed change upset potato growers, who believe potatoes were being unfairly targeted. Some schools have criticized the USDA's attempt to tell them exactly what foods they can or can't serve. Critics say the USDA should focus on advising schools on how to prepare the potato instead. Potatoes can be a good source of fiber and potassium. Many schools already prepare french fries with less grease and serve potatoes in healthier recipes.
The USDA is expected to release a final list of guidelines for the federal school lunch program next year. Senator Mark Udall of Colorado, another potato-growing state, also sponsored the amendment that blocked the spud limit. "This amendment seeks to ensure flexibility for schools to provide nutritious and affordable school meals," he said.
Fruit is considered a healthy treat. But this may not be the best time to enjoy cantaloupe. The U. S.government is warning consumers to avoid cantaloupes from Colorado. The melons are contaminated with listeria, which is a bacteria. So far at least 84 people in more than 19 states have become ill after eating bad melons. At least 17 people have died from the infection. That number may grow. The bacteria have been traced to cantaloupe from Jensen Farms, in Colorado.
Jensen Farms appears to be the single source of the outbreak. "If it's not Jensen Farms, it's okay to eat," said Thomas Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). "But if you can't confirm it's not Jensen Farms, then it's best to throw it out."
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recalled 300,000 cases of cantaloupe grown on the farm. The outbreak is the deadliest of its kind in more than 10 years in the U. S., according to the FDA.
A Bad Bug and Infection
Listeriosis is the name given to the serious infection caused by Listeria monocytogenes. The bacteria have a long incubation period. That means that it may take as long as four weeks for people who have eaten contaminated food to feel ill.
Listeria can be eliminated by cooking, but not by freezing or refrigeration. Unlike most bacteria, listeria can continue to grow at low temperatures even after the original source is gone. The CDC is urging people to clean and sanitize all areas where contaminated food items may have been. And when it comes to the food itself, the CDC advises consumers to follow the motto: "When in doubt, throw it out."
How To Avoid Getting Sick
On September 28, True Leaf Farms in California recalled bags of chopped romaine lettuce. The lettuce also may be contaminated by listeria. No illnesses have been reported yet.
The recent outbreaks have many people taking a closer look at their food and how to stay safe. Remember: Always wash your hands after handling whole melons such as cantaloupe, honeydew and watermelon, and wash or scrub rinds before cutting. Once fruit is cut, eat it promptly or refrigerate the leftovers for no more than a few days.
Sitting in front of the television may be relaxing, but spending too much time in front of the tube may take years off your life.
That's what Australian researchers found when they collected TV viewing information from more than 11,000 people older than 25 years. The study found that people who watched an average six hours of TV a day lived an average 4.8 years less than those who didn't watch any television. Also, every hour of TV that participants watched after age 25 was associated with a 22-minute reduction in their life expectancy.
What's Going On?
It's no mystery that sitting in front of the tube isn't exactly healthy. The more TV you watch, the less physically active you are. And the less exercise you get, the more likely you are to develop diseases such as diabetes or heart problems.
Lennert Veerman is the lead author of the study, which was published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine. Veerman works at the University of Queensland. He acknowledges that it may not just be the sedentary nature of watching TV that lowers life expectancy, but also the poor diet that onscreen junk-food advertising can promote. But Veerman says that the association between watching too much TV and lower life expectancy persisted, even after adjusting for diet.
Veerman says that it might make sense for doctors to start asking their patients about how much time they spend in front of the TV, and to treat TV time as they would other risk factors for poor health, such as lack of exercise and an unhealthy diet.
Veerman points out that people who are concerned can simply turn off the TV and gett off the couch. "Exercise is good," he says, "but even light physical activity also improves health."
The final days of summer are going to be especially sweet this year. New guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics, a medical association made up of children's doctors, give young athletes the okay to play sports in heat and humidity -- as long as they follow some important rules.
The guidelines, released Monday, offer practical information and advice on summer health and safety to prevent heat-related illnesses and injuries. "The more educated parents, athletes and staff are about risks associated with heat illness, the more likely they will think twice before allowing a competitive culture to overtake sound sensibilities," said Dr. Cynthia Devore. She is co-author of the new guidelines and a Rochester, New York, physician.
Sweltering Summer Sports
Between 2001 and 2009, more than 3,000 U. S. children under the age of 20 received emergency-room treatment for heat-related illness due to sports or exercise in high heat. Certain sports like football are especially dangerous because of players' uniforms and heavy padding. A school's football season often begins in late summer when temperatures are still high, so there is a greater risk for heat stroke and exhaustion.
The new guidelines do not give temperature cutoffs for when to stop playing sports. But they focus on safety as being most important. The doctors' report recommends that every young athlete be evaluated to play in the heat. With solid training, plenty of drinking water, time-outs and emergency treatment available on the sidelines, young athletes can play even in high heat and humidity -- within reason.
Guidelines for the Sidelines
Whether you're on the field or in the swimming pool, it's important to follow the new guidelines for the last weeks of summer -- and whenever it's very hot and humid... Here's additional advice from the American Academy of Pediatrics:
Make sure staff trained in heat safety and treatment is available at all times.
Allow yourself time to slowly get used to the heat when playing sports.
Hydrate! Drink anywhere from 3 to 6 cups of water an hour.
Look out for your teammates. If someone seems to be struggling or feeling dizzy, get help right away.
Give yourself a break. Take at least one rest period for every two hours of physical activity.
Next time you bring lunch to school, you might want to add some extra ice packs to your lunch bag or make sure it gets refrigerated. A new study found that most of the lunches kids bring to school and day care are being stored at unsafe temperatures. This can lead to the growth of harmful bacteria that causes food poisoning.
The study is in the science journal Pediatrics. Researchers in Texas tested lunches with perishable items at nine preschool child-care centers. They used a heat-sensing gun to measure the temperatures of sandwiches, yogurts and other items. The results were surprising: more than 90% of perishable items tested were measured at unsafe temperatures before lunchtime. While only about half of the lunches tested had ice packs, many lunches with multiple ice packs were not cool enough, either.
The average temperature of the tested foods was around 62 degrees Fahrenheit. That temperature falls in the range considered to be the "danger zone"between 40 degrees and 140 degreeswhen harmful bacteria that causes food poisoning is more likely to grow. "This study should be an eye-opener for the public," Fawaz Almansour, the study's lead author, told Health.com.
Keeping Kids Healthy
It's especially important for kids' lunches to be stored properly because young children are more likely to be affected by harmful bacteria, such as Salmonella and E. coli. "Kid's immune systems have not adapted to these diseases," Almansour says.
Schools and day-care centers can help keep lunches safe by storing perishable foods in a refrigerator kept at under 40 degrees. Lunch items that should be refrigerated include meats, milk, and sliced fruits and vegetables; hot items, like soup, should be kept above 140 degrees.
When a refrigerator isn't available, there are other tips kids, parents and teachers can follow to make sure packed lunches are good enough to eat:
Choose insulated lunch bags to help maintain temperature.
Use extra ice packs in the lunch bag to keep temperatures down. It also helps to freeze waters, juices and even yogurts overnight before packing. The frozen liquids can double as an extra ice pack.
Fast-food giant, McDonalds, said on Tuesday that they would be cutting out excess calories in their kids menu choices starting in September. McDonalds will reduce the amount of french-fries in Happy Meals and will also include sliced apple dippers in every meal. Before the change, people could ask for apple dippers instead of fries. Now they will get them without asking. McDonalds says it will still include the ever-popular toys with each meal.
McDonalds new Happy Meal will contain apple slices and a smaller order of french fries. Toys are still included.
We are going to be casting our gaze more closely on portion management as well as how we can introduce more food groups such as fruits, vegetables and whole grains, said Cindy Goody, McDonalds senior director of nutrition.
After getting much of the blame for childhood obesity, fast-food chains, especially McDonalds, began selling more nutritious menu items such as oatmeal and salads. But the restaurant was most criticized for its marketing which is often aimed at young children. Some cities, such as San Francisco, California, have banned toys from all kids meals that didnt meet strict nutritional guidelines for fat, salt and sugar content because the prizes attracted more children to the fast food.
Pressure to Change
McDonalds felt public pressure to change their offerings. The company has stopped including caramel sauce with its apple dippers. It also reduced french-fry portions from 2.4 oz to 1.1 oz in every meal. This decreases calorie content by about 20 percent, which means a new Happy Meal is less than 600 calories. Currently, the unhealthiest Happy Meal consists of a cheeseburger, fries and 1 percent chocolate milk, which contains 700 calories and 27 grams of fat.
Its a good first step, said Kelle Louailler, executive director of Corporate Accountability International. His group watches over companies. However, [McDonalds] has yet to address the central issue: its aggressive brand marketing to kids. And so long as burgers, fries and soda offerings to kids, alongside toys, remain central to that brand, health professionals will continue to call for the marketing to stop.
Meanwhile, Goody and her team plan to cut sodium by 15 percent across the entire menu by 2015, with more cuts to sugar and calories by 2020. The Happy Meal changes will be in place in every location across the United States by March 2012.
Government guidelines suggest that children and teens should get 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity every day. But less than half of children and just 10% of teens meet these guidelines. What's the deal?
An estimated 44 million U.S. kids participate in organized sports (think baseball, softball and soccer). But a new study says just one-quarter of kids get the government-recommended amount of exercise when they show up for team practices. The study, published online last month in a medical journal, says younger kids and boys do better than tweens, teens and girls.
The study looked at 200 kids ages 7 to 14 who played on 29 soccer, baseball and softball teams. The kids wore sensors to measure their activity during practices.
During each practice, kids averaged 30 minutes of downtime. "It is not clear how much physical activity is provided by youth sports practices," say the California-based authors of the study. "Much of the time may be inactive, such as receiving verbal instruction and waiting for turns."
Don't Just Sit There!
What's a parent or coachor kidto do? The authors of the study suggest increasing the number of practices, extending short playing seasons and changing it up during practices. For example, the coach could give each player a ball at the same time. Rather than focusing on one player's skills, it's best to get the whole team moving.
But, the study says, the bottom line is that team sports aren't enough exercise. For a child to meet the U.S. physical activity guidelines, the typical kid will have to do more than just join a team. Exercise is also necessary during recess, during physical education class, after school and even on the way to school.
Today, millions of kids around the globe will take a stand against childhood obesity. How? By getting up, getting outside and exercisingall at the same time. The children are taking part in Project ACES, which stands for All Children Exercise Simultaneously. Fitness expert Len Saunders started the yearly event 22 years ago. He hopes Project ACES will motivate young people everywhere to get fit and live healthy lifestyles.
Taking Action
According to the American Heart Association, there are some 25 million children and adolescents in the United States who are overweight or obese. That's nearly 1 in 3 kids. Obesity can lead to many serious health problems. "There is so much research out there that concerns me," Saunders told TFK. He decided to do something about it.
When Project ACES began, Saunders was working at two elementary schools. At first, he envisioned a day where students in just those two schools would exercise together. But before long, schools across the country found out about the plan and wanted to participate. By the following year, schools worldwide were signing up.
Join the Fun!
Valley View Elementary, in Montville, New Jersey, is the host school for the event. Saunders teaches physical education at the school. Valley View plans to hold its Project ACES Day on the playground, where 500 students will get moving with various activities.
Jen Kayne has two kids who attend Valley View Elementary. She says they look forward to the event each year. "My kids count down the days until they get to go outside and exercise with their friends," Kayne says. "Mr. Saunders encourages our children everyday and inspires us to live a healthier lifestyle."
Saunders' new book, Keeping Kids Fit, also features tips on how families can make exercising and eating right fun on a regular basis. "My life's mission is to fight childhood obesity," he says. "You might not be able to change the world, but you can change your little corner of it. If I can have an impact on one family member or one child, then I've succeeded."
First Lady Michelle Obama wants America's kids to eat right, exercise more and keep their weight in check. Obama introduced the Let's Move campaign yesterday. The goal of the program is to reduce childhood obesity, or being overweight, for kids today and in the future. "We're determined to finally take on one of the most serious threats to our [children's] future, and that's the epidemic of obesity in America today," she said.
Obesity is a big problem in the United States. Nearly one in five kids, ages 6 to 19 are overweight. During a person's lifetime, carrying too much weight can lead to serious illnesses, which can lead to higher health costs for everyone.
Let's Move will get families, communities, schools, politicians and newspapers, magazines and TV to join together and "solve the problem of childhood obesity in a generation so that children born today will reach adulthood at a healthy weight," Obama said at a press conference. The plan includes getting food stores to sell healthier foods and schools to serve healthier, less fatty, meals. Obama wants schools to offer regular gym classes and for communities to build places where kids can play safely.
Cut the Fat
Many health experts blame the rising population of obese kids on diets that contain a lot of fat and sugar and that are light on fresh vegetables and fruits. Also, American kids aren't exercising enough to burn up those extra calories.
Mrs. Obama is not only speaking about better diets as a First Lady but also as a mom. She and her kids, Sasha and Malia, discussed the need to eat better and to keep track of what they eat. The changes include serving smaller portions at meals, saving dessert only for weekends, and instead of drinking sugary sodas, switching to water, milk and fresh-squeezed juices. "The point is that small changes make a difference," she told CNN. The First Lady has also set an example by planting a White House vegetable garden. She hopes the garden will inspire people to plant one, too.
Obama summed up her plans for her Let's Move campaign by quoting President Franklin D. Roosevelt. "We cannot always build the future for our youth, but we can build our youth for the future." And if Obama's plan works, our future will be in excellent shape.