Do you wish you knew more about money and how to spend, invest, and save it smartly? Financial Literacy is a skill every kid -- and grown up -- should have. That's why TFK has teamed up with the PwC Charitable Foundation, Inc. to bring you TIME FOR KIDS Your $: Financial Literacy for Kids. Every month, we will send subscribers a magazine that will explore topics such as how to save for college, what's the future of money, how to protect your identity online, and more. In addition to the magazine, all the resources will be available for free here at timeforkids.com/extras. To kick off the launch of the program, TFK spoke with two top financial experts, Jean Chatzky, financial editor for NBC's The Today Show and Mitch Roschelle, partner at PwC.
Mitch, as a partner at a large accounting firm, why do you think it is important for kids to understand finances?
MITCH ROSCHELLE:
It's vitally important that kids master financial-literacy skills. These skills will form the foundation for their social and economic well-being throughout their lives. PwC is especially well equipped to tackle financial-literacy initiatives -- more than 41,000 financially literate people work at PwC.
Can you explain what goals the PwC Charitable Foundation, Inc. hopes to achieve by reaching out to kids and families with this specific program?
According to studies, 80% of teachers say they feel ill equipped to tackle financial literacy in the classroom and nearly 50% of teens are unsure how to use a credit card effectively. We want to change that and have started to make some progress through PwC's Earn Your Future, a $160 million, five-year commitment to advance youth education and financial literacy in the U. S. and positively impact more than 2.5 million students and teachers. As part of this commitment, we teamed up with TFK, which has proven it can deliver hard-to-understand concepts to students, as the perfect way to introduce financial literacy to young people. We are reaching teachers and students in a time-tested format. Research shows that if you start saving early in life, the path your life takes is completely different from what it would be if you didn't start saving early. Having an opportunity to impact millions of kids' lives sounds really good to us.
Jean, you are creating the content in the program. How did you gain money-management skills? Are you good at following your own advice?
JEAN CHATZKY:
I am good at following my own advice. But I wasn't particularly good at managing my money as a young adult. I got into credit-card trouble and didn't start saving my money early enough. I learned my skills when I was bailing myself out of trouble. I don't want to see others go through the pain that I did learning to manage money. 
I majored in accounting and finance, but I took more courses in liberal arts than I did in business. My advice to kids who want a career in finance is to take liberal arts classes because you want to be well-rounded.
I agree. No matter what you study, you need to be able to communicate to other people. That's where the liberal-arts education will come into play.
What one lesson about money did you learn as a kid that you'd like to share?
The biggest lesson I learned is that if you have spent money, you have not saved it. When I was in college, I had some saved gift money. I wanted to use it to buy a really cool car. But I didn't. Instead, I saved it and was able to use it to purchase my first home when I was just 22. I also have a lesson about credit cards. When I graduated from college, I needed clothes for work and I bought suits with a credit card. I made monthly payments on the bill, but one month I didn't have the money. I didn't pay, and nothing happened. I got letters, but no one came to take the suits away and I put off paying the bill until later. Now, years later, it is still on my credit report.
My most important lesson is that working feels really good. I've worked since I was young. I started baby sitting at 11, became a camp counselor at 14, and I worked through high school and much of college at a local sporting-goods store. Money that you earn yourself is so much more valuable than money that someone gives you because you come to understand what it takes to earn the money. You don't value money until you are the one earning it.
What advice do you have for kids who want to help their parents save for future college bills?
Study really hard. The best gift you can give your parents is merit-aid from a college that wants you so much they will give you money to go there. If you have a special skill, like playing the upright base, colleges need that. Stick with it, if you love it. Don't drop your skill junior year of high school just because you're busy. 
Whenever kids say to me when am I going to need this knowledge -- the plant cycle, geometry, or something else -- I always promise them that they will need it at some point in their lives. You can help your family by taking your education seriously and doing your absolute best.
If someone gave you $1 million -- no strings attached -- what would you do with it?
I don't know what I would do with it. For that reason, I would park it someplace until I had a real plan for it. When we hear about people about getting windfalls like a tax refund or winning the lottery or getting an inheritance, all too often we hear in the next sentence that the money is soon gone. People think they should spend the money right away, but what they should do is take some time to decide what to do with it.
I would do what Jean would do. I'll say it again: if you don't spend money, you've saved it. When I get extra money, I put it in the safest place I know of until I decide what I will do with it in the long term. 
Jean, in TIME FOR KIDS Your $: Financial Literacy for Kids you have a column called "Ask Jean" where you answer tough money questions. What's the toughest question about money you have ever been asked?
The toughest question is the one for which there is not one right answer, but many right answers. When people ask where to invest their money, I can't give them a perfect answer because the markets -- and people -- vary.
You both have kids, how do you get them to make smart money choices? Do you give them an allowance and let them manage the money themselves? 
I give my kids allowance. It comes with a list of things that I, as a parent, am no longer willing to buy for them. The goal of the allowance is to make them decide which of those things they should buy. They have to make choices because that's how the world works. I make mistakes. My kids make mistakes. I try not to be a pushover so that they can learn to be more responsible as adults.
Jean will be speaking to my kids within the next 48 hours.
Do you believe allowance should be tied to chores?
I believe kids should do chores because they're part of the family. I don't believe in tying tasks to an allowance because then your kid can decide that they don't want the money enough to load the dishwasher. 
If one of your kids said he or she wanted to start a business, what advice would you give?
It's a great idea for kids to start a business. I have helped my kids start small businesses. When my daughter made ribbon belts, I helped fund the materials and she paid me back out of her first sales. Parents owe it to their kids to teach them about profit and loss and how that works. Parents shouldn't give kids supplies from the pantry for baked goods to sell. Kids need to pay to for materials out of their profit.
Most small businesses and startups fail, many multiple times, before they succeed. My best advice to kids is to embrace failure rather than being afraid of it. You will take the lessons that you learn to your next venture. It will have a better chance of succeeding because of your experience. In life, the best way you learn is by making mistakes and trying to take something away from them. That applies 100% to business as well.
In December, we asked you to choose the most important newsmaker of 2014. More than 11,000 votes were cast, and the results are in! Who is TFK's Person of the Year? TFK readers chose Malala Yousafzai. Malala, 17, has courageously stood up for girls' right to education. On October 10, 2014, Malala was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize jointly with 60-year-old children's rights activist Kailash Satyarthi "for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education," the Norwegian Nobel Committee said. Malala is the youngest Nobel winner in history. She received more than 2,900 votes in TFK's poll.
Symbol for Peace
Malala Yousafzai has never been ordinary. When she was just 11 years old, she started blogging about the Taliban takeover of her hometown of Mingora, in northwestern Pakistan. Taliban members follow an extreme version of Islam, and believe girls should not go to school. Classrooms throughout the Swat district of Pakistan, where Malala lived, were closed for several months. Malala spoke out about her desire to go back to school. "All I want is an education," she told one television broadcaster.
Malala was later able to return to class. But she continued to blog and speak out about girls' right to education. On October 9, 2012, the Taliban tried to silence her. A gunman boarded the truck she and her classmates used as a school bus and shot her in the head. Malala survived, and showed great courage and optimism during her long recovery. During this time, she became a symbol of the struggle for girls' rights all over the world. Nine months after she was shot, she gave a now-famous speech at the United Nations, in New York City. "They thought that the bullets would silence us. But they failed," she said. "And then, out of that silence came thousands of voices. ... Weakness, fear and hopelessness died. Strength, power, and courage was born."
Malala has also become an international symbol for peace. In 2011, she won Pakistan's National Youth Peace Prize, which has since been renamed the National Malala Peace Prize. After winning the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, Malala said the prize was an "encouragement" to go forward with her mission to help kids. "I want to tell children all around the world that they should stand up for their rights," she said. "This award is for all those children whose voices need to be heard."
Other Notable Nominees
Singer Taylor Swift received the second highest number of votes for TFK Person of the Year. Swift began her music career as a country artist. This year, the 24-year-old superstar tried something new. Swift released her first-ever all-pop album, 1989. Her gamble paid off. In its first week alone, 1989 sold 1.287 million copies, the best sales week for an album since 2002.
Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning received the third highest number of votes. Manning's career and statistics place him among the greatest quarterbacks in the history of professional football. Manning set an NFL record by winning Most Valuable Player five times. In October 2014, he broke the all-time touchdown record, throwing touchdown number 509 of his career to break Brett Favre's career record.
"A TIME-Honored Tradition" 
TFK's Person of the Year announcement follows an 86-year-old tradition started by TIME magazine. At the end of each year, TIME editors recognize the person, group, or idea that has influenced events and had the greatest impact on the world for the preceding 12 months. For 2014, TIME chose an exceptional group of people: the health-care workers and volunteers fighting the Ebola virus.
Ebola made headlines throughout 2014. The virus has existed in parts of Africa for decades, but many people only became aware of it after a major outbreak in late 2013. The outbreak of Ebola tested the world's ability to respond to pandemic disease. It was a difficult task, but the group of doctors, nurses, and other responders who fought tirelessly to battle the virus proved themselves heroic and selfless in their mission. The Ebola fighters have put their own lives at risk. Some contracted the disease themselves, in their efforts to take care of sick patients and stop the virus from spreading.
Who will become TFK's Person of the Year in 2015? Informing kids about the people who are changing our world is something TFK aims to do every week. Together, we will watch world events unfold during the year ahead.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge arrived in New York City on Sunday. It is the royal couple's first official visit to the United States since 2011. But, it is the first time either Prince William or Kate, both 32, will have been to New York or Washington.
In April of 2011, Prince William, who is second in line to the British throne, married Kate Middleton in a fairy-tale wedding ceremony in London, England. The royal couple has one son -- Prince George of Cambridge -- born July 22, 2013. The couple is expecting their second child this April.
Before William and Kate arrived, British Consul General Danny Lopez told the press, "It's been incredible to witness the level of excitement from people wanting to be part of it, wanting to attend, wanting to help us and support us."
Plans for a Prince
During their three-day trip, William and Kate will be staying at the Carlyle Hotel on the upper east side of New York City. The hotel was a favorite of William's mother, the late Princess Diana.
On Monday, William will meet U. S. President Barack Obama in the White House to talk about illegal wildlife trading, an issue close to the prince's heart. Kate will spend Monday in New York. She will visit a child development center in Harlem with the city's first lady Chirlane McCray.
Their visit will also include events with other important guests. Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and daughter Chelsea Clinton are accompanying William and Kate to a New York gathering for conservation efforts.
The Duke and Duchess are scheduled to join actor Tom Hanks, and others at a black-tie fundraiser for the University of St. Andrews. The Scottish school is where the royal couple met and earned degrees. Tickets for the event are said to cost up to $10,000 per seat.
During their visit, the royal couple will also visit the National September 11 Memorial and Museum and a basketball game between the Brooklyn Nets and the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Sir Peter Westmacott is the British ambassador to the U. S. "It's important to us to ensure they have a good time," Westmacott told the press. "We hope this will be a very satisfactory, happy, fun visit."
A conservation group has named three fish species that it says are at risk of extinction. The fish are threatened because of overfishing to meet the world's growing demand for food. In a new report released today, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) added Pacific bluefin tuna to its list of more than 22,000 species threatened with extinction. The tuna was joined by the American eel and Chinese pufferfish.
For 50 years, the IUCN has maintained a "Red List" of species evaluated for their threatened status. With today's change, the IUCN moved the Pacific bluefin tuna from the "least concern" category to "vulnerable," meaning it is now threatened with extinction. In an IUCN news release, Director General Julia Marton-Lef¨¨vre said, "Each update of the IUCN Red List makes us realize that our planet is constantly losing its incredible diversity of life, largely due to our destructive actions to satisfy our growing appetite for resources."
Marton-Lef¨¨vre called for policy makers to increase the number of protected areas and to see that they are well-managed. "Experts warn that threatened species poorly represented in protected areas are declining twice as fast as those which are well represented," she said.
Fishing for Food
The bluefin tuna is considered a delicacy -- or a special food -- in many parts of the world. It is used in traditional Japanese dishes such as sushi and sashimi. A dwindling population of bluefin tuna could cause the fish to vanish from the Pacific Ocean for good, IUCN experts warn. To prevent extinction, they say limits must be placed on commercial fisheries that target the highly sought-after fish.
Bruce Collette is the IUCN's tuna and billfish specialist. "The Pacific bluefin tuna market value continues to rise," Collette said, adding that we need to reduce the number of catches of young fish to improve the species' status. The group estimates that the population has diminished by 19% to 33% over the past 22 years.
The Chinese pufferfish is now listed as "critically endangered." Also popular in Japanese food dishes, conservationists estimate the Chinese pufferfish's global population has declined by 99% over the past 40 years. The fish is found in several marine-protected areas in the Pacific Ocean near China with measures in place to protect it. More needs to be done to prevent extinction, IUCN experts say.
The American eel has joined the Japanese eel on the endangered list due to factors such as pollution and habitat loss, in addition to overfishing. The American eel is in demand in East Asian food markets as an alternative to the endangered Japanese eel.
The IUCN also updated the status of some non-fish species including the Chinese Cobra, which is now listed as "vulnerable," and Australia's Black Grass-dart Butterfly as "endangered."
President Barack Obama, left, and China's President Xi Jinping shake hands after a news conference in Beijing, China, on Wednesday, November 12.
President Barack Obama and China's President Xi Jinping announced a breakthrough climate change deal on Wednesday. The deal aims to reduce both nations' enormous carbon emissions and reliance on fossil fuels.
During a press conference in Beijing, China, President Obama called the deal a historic agreement. "As the world's two largest economies, energy consumers, and emitters of greenhouse gases, we have a special responsibility to lead the global effort against climate change," Obama said.
Under the deal, the U. S. must cut carbon emission levels significantly by 2025. Carbon emission is the release of carbon dioxide gas through human activity. China must start reigning in its release of greenhouse gases nationwide and level off its carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 2030.
Burning fossil fuels such as coal and oil sends huge amounts of polluting greenhouse gases, including CO2, into the air. China has long relied on coal to provide energy during its extraordinary economic growth. The nation promised to quickly increase China's reliance on non-fossil fuels in energy consumption. By 2030, Beijing aims to have 20% of the country's energy needs supplied by sources that produce no emissions.
Challenges Ahead
Reaching these goals will not be easy. To hit these targets, experts say that both nations must now draw up and enforce unprecedented policies.
Sam Roggeveen, of the Lowy Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Australia, published a blog post about the deal on Wednesday. He pointed out that the U. S. will have to "double the pace of its carbon pollution reduction to meet the new target."
Roggeveen also wrote that China must put to use "an additional 800-1,000 gigawatts" of zero-emission sources like nuclear, wind, and solar energy by 2030. That's more than all the coal-fired power plants that exist in China today.
Even if China's central government focuses to achieve this, economists say local government officials are critical to carrying out policies. Central governments must provide the proper economic incentives -- something that encourages a person to do something -- to local officials. "If the local bureaucrats resist, then nothing can be done," Xu Chenggang, a professor who is a specialist in China's economic development at the University of Hong Kong, told TIME. "[It doesn't] matter how strong the leader is, to get things done really depends on incentives."
Activists say the world's two largest emitters of CO2 have yet to fully follow through. Still, others are hopeful that the historic announcement today will kick-start the push to lower greenhouse-gas emissions worldwide.
The world's most iconic cat is in trouble. On Monday, the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) asked for African lions to be listed as "threatened" under the Endangered Species Act. This move would help protect them from extinction.
The African lion population, in 1980, was predicted to be 75,800, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). That number has dropped by 30%. The Fish and Wildlife service adds that about 70% of all lion populations inhabit just 10 areas in eastern and southern Africa.
"Unless things improve, lions will face extinction," said Daniel Ashe, the director of the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Homes at Risk
A statement from the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service listed the main threats to the big cats as loss of habitat, lack of prey, and more conflicts with humans. Over time, more humans have moved into areas inhabited by lions. Experts believe human population in sub-Saharan Africa will double by 2050, making the problem worse.
How the Title Would Help
By listing the species as endangered, the USFWS said it could help lions. The service could make some activities illegal, including the buying and selling of hunted lions as trophies. This, it said, would ensure "that people in the United States do not contribute to the further decline of listed species."
Fish and Wildlife Service director Daniel Ashe said the agency wants to protect the endangered animals as much as possible.
"It is up to all of us, not just the people of Africa, to ensure that healthy, wild populations continue to roam the savannah for generations to come," he said.
Wildlife expert Jane Goodall called the suggested listing "excellent news." She says people were not aware of the decline because they see the animals in parks.
"I hope that the proposed listing will be approved," Goodall told the Washington Post. "How terrible to lose the 'king of beasts' from the African scene."
Pakistani youth activist Malala Yousafzai, 17, was awarded the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize on Friday, October 10. She is the youngest Nobel winner in history. Malala shares the prize with Kailash Satyarthi, a 60-year-old man from India who has helped lead a movement to end child slavery around the world. Both winners were recognized "for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education," the Norwegian Nobel Committee announced on Friday.
A Voice for the Voiceless
Malala Yousafzai has never been ordinary. When she was just 11 years old, she started blogging about the Taliban takeover of her hometown of Mingora, in northwestern Pakistan. Taliban members follow an extreme version of Islam, and believe young girls like Malala should not go to school. Classrooms throughout the Swat district of Pakistan, where Malala was living, were closed for several months. Malala spoke publicly about her desire to go back to school. "All I want is an education," she told one television broadcaster.
When the Pakistani government regained control, Malala was able to return to class. She continued to blog and speak out about girls' right to education. But on October 9, 2012, the Taliban tried to silence her. A gunman boarded her school bus and shot her on the left side of her forehead. Malala survived, and showed great courage and optimism during her long recovery. During this time, she became a symbol of the struggle for girls' rights all over the world.
Prize for Peace
Now, Malala has also become an international symbol for peace. Each year, the Nobel prizes honor excellence in medicine, literature, chemistry, promoting peace, and other fields. It is one of the highest honors in the world. Malala and Satyarthi will split the award of $1.1 million.
The Nobel prize is named after Alfred Nobel, who invented dynamite in the 1800s. Nobel left his fortune to reward people who work for the "good of humanity" in the sciences, literature and world affairs. In 2011, Malala won Pakistan's National Youth Peace Prize, which has since been renamed the National Malala Peace Prize.
Malala's mission for peace is unstoppable. Nine months after she was shot, she gave a now-famous speech at the United Nations. "They thought that the bullets would silence us. But they failed," she said. "And then, out of that silence came thousands of voices. ... Weakness, fear and hopelessness died. Strength, power, and courage was born."
The Nobel prizes will be presented to the winners on Dec. 10, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel's death in 1896.
For the past week, pro-democracy protesters have filled the streets of Hong Kong, China. Their goal is "to have true democracy in Hong Kong," said one protester. October 1 is China's annual National Day. This year marks 65 years since the founding of the People's Republic of China. With city residents off work for the holiday, the protest has grown to its largest numbers yet.
A Complicated History
After ruling Hong Kong for 156 years, Britain returned control of the former colony to China in 1997. Since then, the city has been run according to a "one country, two systems" principle. This means that it enjoys more freedom and democracy than the rest of the Communist country.
As part of this policy, Hong Kong's citizens were promised that they would be allowed to democratically elect a leader in 2017. But Beijing, the Chinese capital, has rejected open nominations for the upcoming election. The central government sees Hong Kong's independence as a threat to the country's power. It wants to stop Hong Kong from moving forward with this policy. Some citizens are unhappy to have this promised right denied, and have begun marches and demonstrations in protest. They are also calling for Hong Kong's unpopular leader to resign, or give up his position.
The Future of Hong Kong
The protest is made up of mostly young Hong Kong residents. Some college students have boycotted class, and others have gained support from fellow Hong Kong residents and political activists.
The movement began peacefully, but tensions have increased. Within the first few days police arrested dozens of protesters for offenses including assault and disorderly conduct. At least 83 people have been injured since the protest began, including police officers and government staff and guards, authorities said.
As other regions of China celebrate National Day, tensions in Hong Kong remain high. "In China, people think Hong Kong belongs to China. But people in Hong Kong think that Hong Kong is part of China, but belongs to the world," Julian Lam, a 20-year-old student, tells TIME.
Late on September 30, a downpour of rain fell on Hong Kong. The crowds chanted, "We will stay here until the end despite the weather!"
India's Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, is making a special visit to the United States this week. He arrived in New York on Friday for his five-day trip. On Sunday, more than 18,000 people turned up to see the visiting leader at Madison Square Garden (MSG) in New York City. Many in the crowd were Indian Americans who believe Modi will help India.
In May, Modi, fought hard to win a historic election to become India's Prime Minister. More than 1 billion people are counting on him to improve the struggling nation. India is the largest democracy on the planet, but the country's economy is weak. Those who voted for Modi hope he will be able to fix India's problems.
Modi is confident he can help India. In several campaign speeches, he told Indians that their everyday problems -- a job shortage, unreliable electricity, high food prices, corrupt police -- were fixable. At the MSG event, Modi repeated his campaign promises to help India. He also announced plans to make it easy for Indians to get visas to the United States. "Since taking over, I haven't even taken a 15-minute vacation," Modi said, drawing cheers. 
A Mixed Welcome
The MSG event was organized by the Indian American Community Foundation. More than 30,000 applied for tickets. Many in the audience wore T-shirts or carried posters with Modi's face on it. A dazzling show with dancers warmed up the crowd before he appeared. The event had the feel of a political rally. The audience sometimes broke out into chants of "Modi! Modi!"
Modi's visit to the U. S. was nearly 10 years overdue. In 2005, Modi, was preparing to travel to the U. S. to address Indian Americans. But, the U. S. denied his visit because of his alleged role in violent riots. The U. S. said he had broken a law for allowing religious freedoms.
Not everyone is celebrating Modi's visit this time around, either. A small group of protesters outside MSG chanted anti-Modi slogans. They questioned his record on religious minorities. Before he touched down in the U. S. last week, a New York court issued a summons for him to respond to a lawsuit accusing him of human rights abuses. But as a head of state, he is immune from lawsuits in American courts while in the U. S.
A White House Visit
The size of the Madison Square Garden rally might prove politically useful for Modi. On Tuesday, he will visit Washington, D. C., to meet with President Barack Obama.
Milan Vaishnav, who works at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, says the MSG event was a politically smart move before the talk. "It sends the message that, in addition to a very large support base back home, Modi also has supporters in the U. S."
The White House says Obama and Modi will discuss economic growth, security, clean energy, climate change and other issues. The goal of the meeting is to improve the relationship between India and the United States so the two countries can work together on big issues.
Every fall, world leaders gather at the United Nations (U. N.), in New York City, to discuss major global issues. On September 24, President Barack Obama delivered a speech during the 69th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, which is made up of representatives from 193 different countries.
Among the topics Obama addressed were climate change, the spread of Ebola in Africa, and the launch of U. S. airstrikes against the terrorist group ISIS.
"We come together at a crossroads between war and peace; between disorder and integration; between fear and hope," Obama began his address.
A Call for Peace
The U. N. General Assembly took place just a few days after the United States launched a campaign against ISIS. Five Arab countries -- Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar and Saudi Arabia -- helped carry out the airstrikes in Syria as part of Obama's pledge to defeat ISIS. Combatting violent extremists, like ISIS, was a key point in Obama's address. He encouraged the other world leaders to join the U. S.-led campaign against them.
"Where a genuine civil society is allowed to flourish -- where people can express their views, and organize peacefully for a better life -- then you dramatically expand the alternatives to terror," Obama said.
This afternoon, the President is scheduled to meet with world leaders at a Security Council meeting to discuss how to best unite and move forward in combatting ISIS and other terror groups.
Worldwide Issues
Obama addressed the United States' plans to help prevent the rapid spread of Ebola, which includes sending hundreds of doctors and thousands of troops to affected countries. "But we need a broader effort to stop a disease that could kill hundreds of thousands, inflict horrific suffering, destabilize economies, and move rapidly across borders," he said.
Obama argued that nations must work together to resolve many of these crises affecting people worldwide. On the issue of climate change, Obama recognized work must be done within the United States, but must also be a global effort. "We can only succeed in combating climate change if we are joined in this effort by every major power," Obama said. "That's how we can protect this planet for our children and grandchildren."
On Sunday, more than 400,000 people took part in the People's Climate March in New York City. The protest was the largest climate protest in history and the largest social march in the past 10 years.
The protest took place ahead of the United Nations summit on climate change. The summit meets on Tuesday to talk about ways to prevent further damage to the Earth. One issue they will talk about is a way to cut down on carbon-emissions. Carbon emissions are a result of burning fossil fuels such as gas, coal, or oil.
The New York march was just one of many climate protests held worldwide over the weekend. In total, there were 2,646 events held in more than 150 countries. Those marching hope their participation will put pressure on President Barack Obama and other world leaders to take action. Environmental groups, such as 350.org, helped organize the event.
"Today, civil society acted at a scale that outdid even our own wildest expectations," said May Boeve, executive director of 350.org, in a statement. "Tomorrow, we expect our political leaders to do the same."
Showing Support
Crowds gathered with signs, flags, and floats as music and chants rang out at the start of the march. U. N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon made an appearance, along with New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. Former Vice President Al Gore and movie stars including Leonardo DiCaprio and Edward Norton also attended. And nearly every labor union joined the march. There were so many marchers that it took the back of the line more than two hours to start moving.
People of all ages dressed up in costumes to show their support. Danny Haemmerle, 9, attended the event dressed as a banana. He was there with his family to show support for renewable energy sources, such as wind turbines. "They can make things run just by the wind," Haemmerle said. "And my parents don't have to pay as much," added his brother, Eddie Haemmerle, 11.
A group of doctors marched in lab coats to protest the health effects of climate change. "Carbon pollution directly results in asthma, heart disease, and cancer," said Dr. Steve Auerbach, a pediatrician in New York City.
"It's one of the most important threats to world health, and it's completely preventable," said Dr. Erica Frank, who works in British Columbia. "It would be irresponsible for us to do nothing."
The Philippines' most active volcano is showing signs of awakening. Mount Mayon, located in the eastern Philippines, has been sending huge chunks of lava rolling down its slopes in a gradual eruption that could soon turn colossal. The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology has warned that a "hazardous eruption" of the volcano is possible within just a few weeks.
Slow to Boil
The eruption has been slow and gentle, but overnight on September 17, the volcano produced nearly four times the number of lava fragments than the day before. Super-hot boulders have been spotted from as far as 7 miles away, and molten lava building up at the top of Mayon has created a glow at night that is making local villagers nervous. Low-frequency volcanic earthquakes have also increased. "It's already erupting, but not explosive," said Renato Solidum, director of the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology. "Currently, the activity is just lava coming down. If there is an explosion, all sides of the volcano are threatened."
The Philippine government does not want to take any chances. Many towns surrounding the volcano are government-declared danger zones, and authorities have already begun evacuating thousands of villagers.
A Violent History
Mayon has erupted 50 times in the past 500 years. An eruption in 1993 caused 79 deaths, and subsequent eruptions forced thousands of people in nearby villages to evacuate. The most destructive volcanic eruption was in 1813, when the entire town of Cagsawa was wiped out. "We are praying that it would not be the worst-case scenario," said Herbie Aguas, mayor Santo Domingo, one of the villages closest to the volcano.
Mount Mayon sits 210 miles south of Manila, the capital and second-largest city of the Philippines. Because of its perfect cone shape and proximity to the beautiful Albay Gulf, Mayon is a popular tourist attraction. Its base is 80 miles wide in circumference, and it stands a dramatic 8,077 feet tall. The volcano is located in the center of Mayon Volcano National Park, where many people come to camp and climb. Authorities hope that by issuing early warnings, they will help avoid major destruction and danger.
Scotland is known for its castles, beautiful scenery, bagpipes -- and proud, independent people. Since 1707, it has been part of Britain. But on September 18, millions of Scots will answer yes or no to the question "Should Scotland be an independent country?" The outcome of the referendum could lead to big changes. Residents ages 16 and over can take part in the vote.
Scotland, England, Wales, and Northern Ireland make up a union known as the United Kingdom (U. K.). But since 1999, Scotland has had its own government and the ability to make important decisions. When the Scottish National Party (S. N. P.) took control of the government, in 2011, its leaders promised to hold a vote about Scottish independence.
In Scottish Hands
The S. N. P. is pushing hard for a yes vote. It says an independent Scotland could be among the world's richest nations because of its oil and gas resources. That wealth should be in Scottish hands. "Independence will give us the ability to choose spending and tax policies that best match the needs of Scotland," finance secretary John Swinney says, on the referendum's website.
Those against independence say that being part of the U. K. gives Scotland strength, security, and a currency. The British government says an independent Scotland will no longer be able to use the pound.
Harry Potter author J. K. Rowling lives in Scotland. She is against independence. "I just hope with all my heart," she says, "that we never have cause to look back and feel that we made a historically bad mistake." 
What do you think? Should Scotland be an independent country? Vote in TFK's poll below!
You may have heard a lot about Ebola lately. A new outbreak of this disease has spread through the West African countries of Liberia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, and, most recently, Nigeria. Researchers think this outbreak began in December 2013. Since then, nearly 2,000 people have become infected with the Ebola virus, and more than 1,000 have died from it. Scientists and doctors are working to stop its spread, and to care for the people who are infected.
In late July, two American aid workers in West Africa became infected with Ebola. They were brought back to the United States for treatment. Many Americans are wondering if the virus could become a problem here. Experts say there is no need to worry. Read on to find out why, and to learn the answers to some other common questions about Ebola. 
What is Ebola?
Ebola, or Ebola hemorrhagic fever (Ebola HF), is a contagious and life-threatening disease. It affects humans and other primates, including monkeys, gorillas, and chimpanzees. Ebola gets its name from the Ebola River in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The disease was first reported in a village on the river in 1976.
What are the symptoms of Ebola?
The early symptoms include fever, headache, joint and muscle aches, weakness, chills, difficulty breathing, and a sore throat. As the disease becomes worse, diarrhea, vomiting, and bleeding inside and outside of the body may start to occur. The first signs of infection can appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after exposure to the virus.
How does Ebola spread?
Experts are not sure how an Ebola outbreak starts. The virus spreads from direct contact with bodily fluids -- including blood, saliva, sweat, and urine -- of infected people and animals. Animals in Africa believed to carry Ebola include other primates, fruit bats, porcupines, and forest antelope.
Doctors and nurses are at a high risk of infection because they come into physical contact with Ebola patients. Also, family members who care for infected relatives are more likely to catch the disease, especially if they don't wear proper protective equipment, such as gloves and masks. 
Can Ebola be treated?
Yes. Most people who become infected with Ebola need special care in a hospital. Treatment includes making sure they get plenty of liquids and oxygen, keeping their blood pressure steady, and addressing symptoms and complications as they come up. Patients also need to be kept from the public to help prevent the disease from spreading.
There is no cure for Ebola, but doctors are working on a vaccine to prevent it. Some experimental drugs have been developed to treat the disease. They have been effective in animals, but have not yet been approved for testing on humans.
Are we safe in the United States?
Yes. There have been no reported cases of Ebola spreading to the U. S. The two American aid workers who recently became infected with Ebola in West Africa were flown back to the U. S. and hospitalized immediately. While Ebola is contagious, it is not as contagious as the flu. Special medical planes and vehicles were used to transport the infected patients to prevent the disease from spreading.
Can the Ebola outbreak be stopped?
Yes. Experts know how to control Ebola. They are now working to stop the outbreak in West Africa, which is the best way to protect people in the U. S. and around the world. Once Ebola is brought under control in the infected countries, there will be no new cases and the virus will stop spreading. However, experts are unsure of how long it will take to end the current Ebola outbreak.
How is the U. S. helping?
Disease specialists have been sent to West Africa by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to help slow the spread of Ebola.
A group of Russian criminals have stolen 1.2 billion username and password combinations for more than 500 million email addresses. It's the largest known collection of stolen Internet credentials, according to a New York Times report.
Cyber security firm Hold Security discovered the security breach. The firm found that the group of criminals collected personal information from 420,000 websites, including household names and small Internet sites. The criminals were based in a small city in south central Russia. They hacked websites inside Russia as well as big companies in the U. S. and other countries, the New York Times reports. The firm can not say exactly which websites were broken into.
The criminals found hundreds of thousands of weak websites and attacked their coding, Hold Security said. Alex Holden is the chief information security officer of Hold Security."[The] hackers did not just target U. S.companies, they targeted any website they could get," Holden told the Times. "And most of these sites are still vulnerable."
Tip of the Iceberg
According to Hold Security, the criminals have been using the stolen information to send spam through e-mail and on social networks like Twitter. They can also use the 500 million stolen e-mail address to plan other crimes. They could use information from bank e-mails to steal your identity or sell the e-mail address to other criminals to make quick cash.
The reported break-ins are the latest events to raise doubts about security at big and small companies. Last winter, hackers stole 40 million credit card numbers and 70 million addresses, phone numbers and other personal information from the retailer Target Corp. The brand is still working to regain its shoppers' trust.
John Prisco is a CEO of a security firm called Triumfant. He says security hacks are more common than many people and companies realize. "This issue reminds me of an iceberg, where 90 percent of it is actually underwater," Prisco said in an emailed statement. "So many cyber breaches today are not actually reported, often times because companies are losing information and they are not even aware of it."
Security experts believe hackers will continue breaking into computer networks unless companies become more protective of personal information.
A missile shot down a Malaysian airliner over eastern Ukraine on Thursday. Armed rebels who control the area had kept investigators away for days. They are suspected of hiding evidence about the attack.
The jet was on its way from Amsterdam, in the Netherlands, to Kuala Lumpur, in Malaysia. There were 298 passengers on board. More than half were Dutch -- citizens of the Netherlands.
The Ukrainian government and pro-Russian rebels have accused each other of bringing down the jet by firing the missile at it. Many analysts believe Russia is supporting the rebels, and may have even fired the missile. Russia's president Vladimir Putin denies both charges.
According to one U. S. official, however, Russians likely provided more than one missile system to the rebels in the last week or so. The official asked to remain anonymous.
A Growing Conflict
The conflict in Ukraine has been simmering since early this year. Tensions arose over whether or not the country would have closer cultural and economic ties with Europe or with Russia. The rebels, who want closer ties with Russia, are fighting for control of eastern Ukraine. In March, Putin declared Crimea, another part of Ukraine, to be a part of Russia.
President Barack Obama has sharply condemned the rebels. "The separatists are removing evidence from the crash site. All of which begs the question: What exactly are they trying to hide?" he said.
Rebel leader Alexander Borodai has denied that his group has interfered with the work of investigators. He said he encouraged the involvement of the international community in assisting with the cleanup.
Ukraine has called on Moscow to insist that the rebels grant international experts the ability to conduct a thorough investigation into the crash. President Obama issued the same demand.
Investigation Into the Crash
Finally, on Monday, Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia said his government had reached an agreement with the rebels. They agreed to hand over the victims' bodies and the jet's black boxes. These devices hold voice recordings from the cockpit, as well as data -- including time, altitude, and speed -- about the jet. The black boxes help investigators discover what happened before a crash. Dutch investigators arrived at the crash site, and rebels allowed them to search the wreckage.
Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans has demanded that the culprits be found and held accountable for the attack. "Once we have the proof, we will not stop until the people are brought to justice," he said.
Russia has "a key role to play" through its influence on the rebels, said British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond. "The world's eyes will be on Russia to see that she delivers on her obligations."
On Friday, June 6, world leaders and veterans will gather at the war cemeteries in Normandy, in northern France. They will honor tens of thousands of fallen World War II soldiers who lie buried along the French coastline of the English Channel. The ceremonies will mark the 70th anniversary of D-Day, the start of World War II's most important battle.
On June 6, 1944, Allied troops invaded Nazi-controlled France by sea. The giant invasion force included a fleet of about 54,000 warships and about 300,000 soldiers, from the U. S., Britain, New Zealand and several other countries. Once ashore, the troops fought their way through Normandy, village by village, crushing or driving back the German forces in their path under heavy bombing from the air. It was a brutal three-month battle.
In all, about 100,000 soldiers on both sides, and about 20,000 Normandy citizens, were killed. The invasion broke the German occupation of Europe. It also liberated the horrifying Nazi concentration camps, and ended the conflict that left much of Western Europe in physical and economic ruin.
Ceremonies at Normandy
For the 70th anniversary of D-Day, hundreds of surviving veterans are uniting all week on Normandy's beaches. Dozens of villages are hosting photo exhibitions, veterans' gatherings, fireworks, and military fly-pasts.
President Barack Obama and French President Francois Hollande will attend a wreath-laying ceremony on Friday morning at the U. S. war cemetery in the tiny French village of Colleville-sur-Mer -- the burial site for 9,387 young Americans. Obama and Hollande will also attend an international ceremony on Normandy's Sword Beach, in the village of Ouistreham, along with other world leaders from the countries that fought the Nazis. Russian President Vladimir Putin will take part, to commemorate Russia's heavy loss of life against German forces. In a sign of postwar unity, the ceremonies will also honor about 23,000 young German soldiers killed in Normandy. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and many German veterans will attend.
These memorial ceremonies happen every five years, but this year's events will likely be the last ones to include veterans of D-Day in significant numbers. The veterans are now in their late-eighties and early-nineties. They are aware that this is probably their final visit -- and in many cases, their only visit.
The Greatest Generation
D-Day veterans say they fear that as their generation -- nicknamed "the greatest generation" -- fades, so too might interest in their experience. "I am afraid people might forget the war, and the misery it brought," Bernard Dargols, 94, a D-Day veteran in the U. S. Army, said recently. "The one reason I am asked to tell my story is that there are so few of us veterans left. I didn't read these things in books. I was there."
Dargols, a Paris-born Jew, immigrated to the U. S. in 1938 and became a U. S. citizen. Six years later, he landed on Normandy's Omaha Beach as a U. S. Army staff sergeant. As a native French speaker, he became a crucial U. S.intelligence agent.
Dargols says he still recalls the intense terror he felt during on D-Day, as he came ashore under heavy bombing with little military training and no combat experience. "I was very scared," he says.
British war historian Antony Beevor is the author of D-Day: The Battle for Normandy. He says that for many Americans, World War II was the last great moral combat. "The reason why World War II has such a powerful influence on our imagination is because the moral choices were so great and important," Beevor says. "That's the most important lesson for younger generations."
And at least for now, veterans like Dargols are still here to teach it.
Climbing Mount Everest, the world's highest mountain, just became more challenging. The government of Nepal is telling climbers they cannot leave trash on the trails. Each trekker will have to come down the mountain with at least 18 pounds of garbage. That's the average amount of trash a climber leaves behind on Everest.
Officials say climbers are responsible for their own trash. "We are not asking climbers to pick up trash left by someone else," said Maddhu Sudan Burlakoti, who works for the Nepal Tourism Ministry. "We just want them to bring back what they took up."
More than 4,000 people have reached the 29,035-foot summit in the past 60 years. Leaving trash along the way helps trekkers keep their bags light so they have energy to reach the summit. "The trash problem in Mount Everest is not new," Burlakoti says. "When the people started to climb the mountain, they started to leave their garbage there." They have left behind cans, tents, food wrappers, and equipment. Last year, climbers carried down a total of four tons of trash.
World's Highest Garbage Dump
The new rule came into effect in April of 2014. To make sure it is followed, climbers will have to deposit money before the climb. Once they climb back down the mountain, officials will check trekkers at a return camp to make sure they have the required 18 pounds of trash. If they do, their money will be returned to them. If they do not, climbers will not receive their deposit and they will not be given a permit the next time they want to climb Everest.
The goal is to make sure no more litter will be left on Everest, which has earned the nickname the World's Highest Garbage Dump. "As we offer Mount Everest to all the people of the world they should take responsibility to clean it," Burlakoti says. "After seeing the results from this, we will extend this rule to other mountains also."
A massive earthquake occurred off the coast of northern Chile on Tuesday night, setting off a small tsunami. The wave of sea water forced evacuations along the country's entire Pacific coast. The quake was one of several to hit the region over the past two weeks.
Tuesday's magnitude 8.2 quake struck 61 miles northwest of Iquique, Chile, a northern coastal city with a population of 200,000 people. Tremors were felt 290 miles away in La Paz, the capital of Bolivia. The shaking in La Paz was the equivalent of a 4.5 magnitude tremor, authorities there said. The earthquake also set off tsunami warnings in Hawaii, thousands of miles away.
Earthquake Effects
The quake began at 8:46 p. m. local time and set off landslides that blocked roads, knocked out power for thousands of people, damaged an airport, and started fires that destroyed several businesses. Authorities reported a total of six deaths. Chilean President Michelle Bachelet declared a state of emergency and was reviewing damage in Iquique. 
The country appeared to get through the incident mostly unharmed. Thousands of people moved inland as waves measuring more than six feet struck coastal cities. The mandatory evacuation order lasted nearly 10 hours. While the tsunami lifted some fishing boats onto city streets and sunk others, it otherwise caused no major damage.
Most of the mining industry in Chile -- the world's leading copper producer -- is located in the northern regions. So far, none of the top mining companies in the area appears to have been affected.
In Iquique, about 300 inmates escaped from a women's prison. Security officials were sent to the city to protect it from looting and several dozen prisoners were quickly captured. Hundreds of soldiers were also sent to the quake zone. "We have taken action to ensure public order in the case of Iquique," Interior Minister Rodrigo Penailillo said, "so that the armed forces and police can coordinate and provide tranquility and security to the residents."
"The country has done a good job of confronting the emergency," Bachelet said in a message posted on Twitter. "I call on everyone to stay calm and follow the authorities' instructions."
Last month, trouble swept through Ukraine, an Eastern European nation that is home to 44.6 million people. The country, which sits on Russia's western border, has close ties to Russia. Nearly a quarter of the population of Ukraine speaks Russian.
Ukraine's president, Viktor Yanukovych, has been removed from power. He was in office from 2010 to 2014. In November, he refused to sign a trade agreement with the European Union. When he later signed a loan deal with Russia, peaceful protests began. Protesters called for elections and a new government.
In mid-February, clashes with the police left an estimated 80 protesters dead and hundreds injured. After the violence, Yanukovych lost the support of the military and Parliament. Without agreeing to give up his power, he fled Kiev, the capital. Russia has offered him protection. After Yanukovych abandoned his home, Ukrainian citizens peered into the windows of the president's palace. Its lavish richness is a symbol of inequality in a country that struggles with corruption.
An Uncertain Future
Last week, the Ukrainian Parliament named its speaker, Oleksandr Turchynov, temporary president. As of March 4, Russian troops had moved into the Crimea region, in southern Ukraine.
Although new elections are set for May 25, events may call for officials to move faster than that. United States Secretary of State John Kerry visited Kiev to meet with leaders there.
The Olympic torch's flame has gone out. Sunday night marked the conclusion of the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia. The host country came out on top, with 13 gold medals and 33 medals overall. The United States took home nine gold medals, and a total of 28 medals overall.
A Colorful Closing
The 17-day competition ended with a festive closing ceremony at Fisht Olympic Stadium. The performances celebrated the talent and dedication of the hundreds of athletes from around the world who took part, as well as Russia's rich history of music, art and literature. Faces of famous Russian authors were projected onto large screens. Performers wearing puffy white wigs pushed 62 pianos in a dance around the stadium floor. Dancers moved across the stage in a traditional Russian ballet. And a giant mechanical bear, one of Sochi's mascots for the past two weeks, lumbered onto the stage to put out the torch's flame. It even shed a tear as it bid Sochi goodbye.
Medal Count
While 2014 was not a spectacular year for American athletes, Team USA had good reason to celebrate. The U. S. placed fourth in gold medals, and second place in overall medals. Though that was fewer than the U. S. took home at the 2010 Vancouver Winter Games, there were plenty of performances that made this year's Olympics memorable for Americans.
Mikaela Shiffrin was responsible for one of those memorable moments. On February 21, the 18-year-old became the youngest athlete to ever win an Olympic slalom gold medal. "Today was one of the most special days of my life," she said following her win.
Partners Meryl Davis and Charlie White became the first Americans to win gold in the ice dancing event, after skating together for 17 years. And snowboarders Sage Kostenburg and Jamie Anderson each won gold in the Olympic debuts of, respectively, men's and women's slopestyle.
Though the 2014 Winter Olympics are over, Sochi is preparing to welcome a whole new wave of athletes. The Paralympic Winter Games will run from March 7 to 16, giving athletes with disabilities a chance to compete.
For as long as they can remember Jynne Martin and April Surgent had both dreamed of going to Antarctica. This winter, they each made it to the icy continent as guests of the National Science Foundation (NSF). But they didn't go as scientists. Martin is a poet and Surgent is an artist. They went to Antarctica as participants in the NSF's Artists and Writers program. The NSF is the government agency that funds scientific research in Antarctica. But it also makes it possible for artists, including filmmakers and musicians, to experience Antarctica and contribute their own points of view to our understanding of the continent.
Where Science and Art Meet
The mixing of science and art in Antarctica isn't new. Some of the earliest explorers brought along painters and photographers. Edward Wilson was a British painter, doctor, and ornithologist (bird expert) who journeyed with Robert Falcon Scott on two separate Antarctic expeditions more than 100 years ago.* Herbert Ponting was a photographer who also accompanied Scott on one of those expeditions. In hundreds of photos, Ponting captured the beauty of the continent and recorded the daily lives and heroic struggles of the explorers.
Frank Hurley was a photographer who documented the expedition led by British explorer Ernest Shackleton. Some of the most dramatic and famous photographs ever taken of Antarctica were taken by Hurley.
A Critical Collaboration
"It's important for scientists and artists to work together," says Surgent, who spent six weeks at Palmer Station, the smallest of the U. S. research bases. "You need a lot of different perspectives and points of view to explain the world." One of Surgent's projects at Palmer was to use homemade pinhole cameras to take photographs that slowly developed over several days. "We are so used to digital cameras and instant images," says Surgent. "This project was a way to slow down and really look and see again."
Martin followed four different scientific teams on the ice and wrote articles and poems inspired by her experience. "Each day was the new 'best day of my life,'" said Martin, who said she also loved spending time in the library at the McMurdo Station reading the journals of early explorers. 
Explaining the Research
Today's scientists write articles for scientific journals. Unlike the early explorers' journals, scientific papers can now be very difficult for non-scientists to understand. Writers in Antarctica work to explain the research to the public. Peter Rejcek is editor, writer, and photographer for the Antarctic Sun, an online magazine devoted to news about the U. S. Antarctic Program. Rejcek began his career in the Antarctic in 2003 by spending a year at the South Pole. He has returned every year since, interviewing scientists about research at Palmer, McMurdo, and South Pole stations.
There are also scientists in Antarctica who work hard to explain their research to the public. Scientist Diane McKnight wrote The Lost Seal, a children's book that explains the research she and others are doing in an unusual ice-free area in Antarctica called the Dry Valleys.
Antarctica is full of stories and wonders that are scientific, historical, and personal. People such as Martin, Surgent, Rejcek, and McKnight are dedicated to bringing those stories to as many people as they can. "Some people are going to be scientists, some people are going to be journalists, some people are going to be artists, but we can all work together," says Surgent, "to celebrate this extraordinary place."
Millions of people across China crowded onto trains and buses this week, hurrying home to be with their families for the country's most important holiday, Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival. January 31 marks the end of the Year of the Snake and the beginning of the Year of the Horse.
More than one billion people worldwide celebrate Lunar New Year. In China, people from Beijing to Guangzhou enjoy a holiday. Businesses and government offices are closed. Many people go to temples to pray for good fortune.
History of the Holiday
The Lunar New Year is celebrated at the second new moon after the winter solstice. The winter solstice, which falls around December 21, is one of two times of the year when the sun is at its greatest distance from the equator. It is also the shortest day of the year.
According to an ancient legend, Buddha asked all the animals to meet him on Lunar New Year. Twelve animals came, and Buddha named a year after each one. The animals were the Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Goat, Monkey, Rooster, Dog, and Boar (or Pig).
Wealth and Good Luck
Buddha announced that people born in each animal's year would have some of that animal's personality. If you were born in 1942, 1954, 1966, 1978, 1990, or 2002, you were born in the Year of the Horse.
The animals are also linked with the five elements -- wood, fire, earth, metal, and water. Each element has a color: green for wood, red for fire, brown for earth, white for metal, and black for water. This year, 2014, is considered the year of the green horse.
People who were born in the year of the horse are believed to be brave, cheerful, and filled with luck and strength. They are said to get along best with people born under the year of the Tiger, Goat, or Dog. The year of the horse is considered a fortunate year that brings good luck and wealth. But according to Chinese philosophy, those born under the horse sign may have a difficult year in 2014. They are advised not to make important life decisions until 2015.
Festivals, Lions, and Feasts
Lunar New Year's Eve is celebrated with family gatherings and festivals. Cities traditionally mark the 15-day New Year season with firecrackers and fireworks. Last year, officials asked that celebrations in Beijing, China, use fewer fireworks because of a pollution problem. Officials wanted to avoid blackening the skies with more thick smoke. This year, a ban on fireworks will likely be in effect.
At the festivals, one of the most popular ways to celebrate is with the lion dance. The lion is considered a holy animal. During celebrations, dancers dressed as lions (or holding up elaborate paper lions) perform. The dancers are supposed to bring good luck to the people they visit at their homes or businesses. People often wear red, which symbolizes fire. Legend has it that fire can drive away bad luck. It is also tradition for households to carefully clean the house to sweep away bad fortune and make room for good luck. The celebrations end with the Lantern Festival, when brightly colored lamps are hung in parks around China.
The eyes of the world will be on Sochi, Russia, from February 7 to 23. The 2014 Winter Olympic Games will take place over the course of those action-packed 17 days. More than 3 billion people around the globe are expected to watch the Games on television. About 84 countries will take part, bringing more than 5,500 athletes and team members to Sochi. Then, the action will continue with the Paralympic Winter Games, which will run from March 7 to 16. In the Paralympics, athletes with disabilities compete in sporting events. The Paralympics began in 1960 to give athletes with disabilities a chance to compete for Olympic gold.
A Return to Russia
The 2014 Games in Sochi are not the first to take place on Russian soil. In 1980, Moscow, Russia's capital, hosted the Summer Olympic Games. Sochi, located on the coast of the Black Sea, is one of Russia's largest resort cities, with a population of about 350,000. 
Russia has been preparing for the Games since it was chosen to host them in 2007. Construction of the Olympic venues in Sochi began in 2009. Opening and closing ceremonies will take place in the newly built Fisht Olympic Stadium, which seats 40,000 people. The dome-shaped stadium, named after the nearby Fisht Mountain, opens on either end. Spectators get a view of Fisht and other mountains in the north and the Black Sea in the south.
Just in case the weather is too warm for snowfall, Olympic organizers have been stockpiling snow since last year. They learned their lesson from the 2010 Winter Games in Vancouver. During those Games, temperatures were so warm that organizers had to truck and fly in snow from a nearby mountain. For Sochi, organizers gathered up 16 million cubic feet of snow -- about how much water flows over Niagara Falls in four minutes. They also used hundreds of snow-blowing machines to collect icy-cold water from two lakes, which they then turned into tons of artificial snow. Thick insulated blankets on top of the snow keep it from melting.
In addition to having enough snow, security is a top priority for both Olympic officials and the Russian government. After several recent terrorist attacks in Russia, tens of thousands of security officers have been assigned to Sochi to make sure the Games remain peaceful and safe for everyone in attendance.
In 2012, Google's street view team traveled to the world's least-populated continent to capture historic sites such as the South Pole and the insides of buildings that have battled the elements for more than a century.
Taking a virtual look inside places that provided shelter for Antarctica's earliest explorers is like stepping back in time. "They were built to withstand the drastic weather conditions only for the few short years that the explorers inhabited them," says Google. "But remarkably, after more than a century, the structures are still intact, along with well-preserved examples of the food, medicine, survival gear, and equipment used during the expeditions."
For Google to create a 360-degree image of a certain area, it basically needs to snap multiple photos from multiple angles at the same time. Starting with a special camera with 15 lenses, each lens snaps a photo that overlaps somewhat with the two lenses on either side of it. Then, the resulting images are stitched together into a panoramic shot.
Street View photos are normally gathered using specially modified cars, trikes, and even snowmobiles with a custom camera. But the crop of immersive imagery from the icy continent was collected using only "a lightweight tripod with a fisheye lens," according to Google. In an area as unforgiving as Antarctica, Google says it "worked with this technology because of its portability, reliability, and ease-of-use."
The end result may not be quite the same as being there in person, but it's definitely a historically interesting step forward. And it's a lot warmer, safer, and less expensive, too.
A virtual tour of the interior of Antarctic explorer Ernest Shackleton's hut displays the host of supplies used in early 20th century Antarctic expeditions -- everything from medicine and food to candles and cargo sleds can be found neatly stored inside.
Who was the most important newsmaker of 2013? Since 1927, TIME magazine's editors have chosen a Person of the Year, someone who has had the greatest impact on world events. This year, the honor went to Pope Francis. He is the third pope to be chosen as TIME's Person of the Year -- the title went to Pope John Paul II in 1994 and to Pope John XXIII in 1963.
A Historic Announcement
Just weeks after Pope Benedict XVI made the surprise announcement that he would resign, a group of 115 cardinals gathered for a secret vote in the Sistine Chapel, in Vatican City. It was a fast selection process, given how complicated it is.
Their choice was made public on March 13 when a puff of white smoke rose from a chimney on the roof of the Sistine Chapel. Next came an announcement from the balcony of St. Peter's Basilica. The news was met with cheers from the thousands of people who had gathered in St. Peter's Square. "Habemus papam," they chanted. "We have a Pope." His name was Jorge Mario Bergoglio.
Before being elected Pope, Bergoglio (Ber-goal-io) was a cardinal in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He is the first Pope from South America and the first non-European pope in 1,300 years. To lead the world's 1.2 billion Catholics he chose the name Pope Francis in honor of Saint Francis of Assisi, the Italian saint who chose a life of poverty.
A Man of the People
Bergoglio was born December 17, 1936, to Italian immigrant parents. His father worked as an accountant for the railway. His mother raised five children. In college, Bergoglio studied chemistry. After graduating, he entered the priesthood, becoming Cardinal of Buenos Aires in 2001. To Argentinians who saw him riding to and from work on the capital city's crowded busses and subway, Bergoglio was a man of the people.
That same simplicity has marked his time as Pope. Instead of living in the papal palace, Bergoglio makes his home in a more modest Vatican apartment. And while past popes traveled in fancy cars, Pope Francis drives around Vatican City in a small, nearly 30-year-old vehicle given to him by a local priest. In his teachings, Pope Francis has spoken out against income inequality and urged followers to fight against poverty. He has stirred excitement among followers and brought new energy to the church.
A nation mourns the loss of its former leader, Nelson Mandela, who has died after a long illness. He was 95. 
Jacob Zuma, South Africa's president, announced Mandela's death at a news conference. "We've lost our greatest son," Zuma said.
Mandela was known for ending apartheid, a system that separated whites from nonwhites in South Africa. After spending 27 years in prison for fighting against racial inequality, he became the country's first democratically elected president. "I think he's a hero for the world," said President Barack Obama in a speech during his visit to Senegal in June.
Early Years
Mandela was born Rolihlahla Mandela on July 18, 1918. He grew up poor in a small South African village. When Mandela was nine, he was adopted by and sent to live with his father's friend, a prosperous clan chief.
In school, Mandela learned about African history and his ancestors' struggles with discrimination. He wanted to help his countrymen. He later traveled to Johannesburg, where he studied law and opened the country's first black law practice. He also joined the African National Congress, a group that fought for racial equality.
Fight Against Apartheid
In 1948, the government introduced apartheid, which left the country's nonwhite majority with few economic opportunities. In response, Mandela traveled throughout South Africa and encouraged people to take part in nonviolent demonstrations against the government's racial segregation policies. He was arrested for organizing anti-government activities and eventually sentenced to life in prison. "I have cherished the ideal of a democratic and free society in which all persons live together in harmony and with equal opportunities," he said during his trial. "It is an ideal which I hope to live for and to achieve. But if needs be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared to die."
Mandela's imprisonment led to protests around the world and economic sanctions, or limits on trade, against his country.
First Black President
On February 11, 1990, South African president F. W. de Klerk released Mandela from prison, and the two worked together to end apartheid. Three years later, they won the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts.
In 1994, for the first time in South African history, nonwhites were allowed to vote in democratic elections. Mandela was elected president by an overwhelming majority. While in office, he worked to improve housing, education, and economic opportunities for the country's large black population.
Mandela stepped down as president in 1999. That same year, he created the Nelson Mandela's Children Fund, a charity that helps poor South African children. "Children are the wealth of our country," he said in an interview with TFK in 2002. "They must be given love."
Over the years, Mandela continued working to promote peace around the world. In 2007, he helped found The Elders, an organization of world leaders committed to ending conflicts and promoting human rights. "When you want to get a herd to move in a certain direction," he told TIME in 1994, "you stand at the back with a stick. Then a few of the more energetic cattle move to the front and the rest of the cattle follow. You are really guiding them from behind. That is how a leader should do his work."
The illegal ivory trade has been a major problem in Africa for decades. Poachers and hunters have killed off hundreds of thousands of elephants to obtain this precious material. Now, affected areas are taking action. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) announced on Wednesday that key states where poaching takes place have pledged to stop the ivory trade and protect Africa's elephants.
Over the past few days, top officials and experts from 30 states met at the African Elephant Summit. The conference, organized by the IUCN and the government of Botswana, was held in Gaborone, Botswana's capital city
Conservation efforts will extend to countries outside Africa, including China and Thailand, where much of the ivory is sent. "Now is the time for Africa and Asia to join forces to protect this universally valued and much needed species," said Botswana President Ian Khama. 
Years of Poaching
In the 1980s, as many as 1 million elephants across Africa were killed for their ivory tusks. The ivory was used to make jewelry and other items. This continued until 1989, when the Convention on International Trade in Species (CITES) voted to ban all trade in ivory. With trade choked off, demand for ivory fell. Governments cracked down on poachers. Elephant populations slowly began to increase. However, this progress was short-lived.
According to the IUCN, 2011 saw the highest levels of poaching and illegal ivory trading in at least 16 years. Around 25,000 elephants were killed in Africa that year. Preliminary data from the IUCN shows even higher levels of illegal trade may have been reached in 2013. "With an estimated 22,000 elephants illegally killed in 2012, we continue to face a critical situation," said John E. Scanlon, CITES Secretary-General. "Current elephant poaching in Africa remains far too high, and could soon lead to local extinctions if the present killing rate continues."
A Zero-Tolerance Approach
At the African Elephant Summit, key African states where elephants make their home agreed to develop a "zero-tolerance approach" to poaching. These states include Gabon, Kenya, Niger, and Zambia. Asian trade states Vietnam, the Philippines, and Malaysia were also part of the agreement, along with China and Thailand.
The deal calls for maximum sentences for poachers and hunters, and increased cooperation between affected states. Officials are committed to classifying wildlife trafficking as a serious crime -- and to making sure that the people who commit it are punished. All participants at the conference agreed to sign the deal. With these states coming together, there may yet be hope for elephants.
The Philippines is reeling from a massive typhoon that hit its eastern seaboard on Friday. The powerful storm leveled nearly everything in its path and has left a possible death toll of 10,000. Officials fear the number will rise even higher than that. Supertyphoon Haiyan, called Yolanda in the Philippines, is the strongest recorded storm to make landfall anywhere on earth. ¡°The devastation is¡­ I don¡¯t have words for it,¡± said Philippines Interior Secretary Mar Roxas. ¡°It¡¯s really horrific. It¡¯s a great human tragedy.¡±
Site of the Storm
A typhoon is a tropical storm with winds stronger than 74 miles per hour. It is the same as a hurricane, but scientists call the storms different names depending on where they occur. A typhoon forms over the northwestern Pacific Ocean, while a hurricane is born in the Atlantic Ocean or the northeastern or southern Pacific Ocean. These storms form when tropical winds gather moisture as they pass over water that is at least 80 degrees Fahrenheit.
The Philippines is no stranger to storms. Its warm ocean waters make it a prime location for them to form. On average, eight or nine tropical storms make landfall in the island country each year. But no storm has ravaged the country like Haiyan.
Haiyan barreled across the central islands of the Philippines with a storm surge of 20 feet and winds reaching 200 miles per hour. Among the areas hardest hit is the eastern province of Leyte. Its capital city, Tacloban, was almost entirely flattened. Smaller provinces are also believed to have experienced similar devastation, but are difficult for rescue teams to reach.
Aid Arrives
The Department of Social Welfare and Development says 9.5 million people have been affected by Haiyan. With power and communications down, survivors are forced to walk far distances to find help. Tacloban¡¯s only functioning hospital has just 250 beds, and medicine is in short supply.
The U.S. military arrived Monday afternoon in Tacloban with rescue teams, and the U.K., European Union, Australia, and New Zealand have also sent help. ¡°The U.S. government is organizing emergency shipments of critically needed material to provide shelter to the hundreds of thousands of Filipinos driven from their homes by this unprecedented typhoon,¡± said Secretary of State John Kerry.
Though aid has arrived in the Philippines, the work to restore the country has only just begun.
Winter is coming to northern China¡ªand with it, another season of heavy smog. Smog is a hazy blend of smoke and fog caused by pollution in industrial areas. On Monday, in the large city of Harbin, small-particle pollution rose to a record 40 times higher than what is considered to be safe by the World Health Organization (WHO). The thick haze caused visibility to fall to less than half a football field, grinding the city to a halt.
When Wu Kai, a 33-year-old Harbin resident, looked out her apartment window on Monday, she couldn¡¯t see anything. At first, she thought it was snowing. Then she realized it was smog. Her husband left for work wearing a mask to cover his mouth and nose and stop him from breathing in the pollution. His regular bus wasn¡¯t running because of the low visibility. ¡°It¡¯s scary, too dangerous,¡± Kai told the Associated Press. ¡°How could people drive or walk on such a day?¡±
Many people can¡¯t get around. Authorities in the city closed primary and middle schools and some highways on Monday. Harbin¡¯s Taiping International Airport canceled or delayed at least 40 flights.
Smog Season
Northern China experiences year-round air pollution from factory emissions and the huge number of vehicles on the road. Typically, the air pollution is at its worst in the winter, when more coal is burned to heat homes and buildings. Harbin¡¯s municipal heating systems kicked in on Sunday. On Monday, visibility was down to less than 55 yards, according to state media.
China¡¯s environmental protection agency monitors the level of harmful particles in the air. The agency saw readings as high as 1,000 micrograms per cubic meter at several monitoring stations in Harbin on Monday. WHO says a safe level is 25 micrograms per cubic meter.
Pollution Problems
China¡¯s major cities have some of the world¡¯s worst smog. Record levels of air pollution crippled Beijing, the capital, for weeks last winter. The Chinese government, which had long ignored the problem, is finally taking notice. In September, China¡¯s Cabinet announced a plan that aims to reduce the country¡¯s heavy reliance on coal to below 65 percent of total energy usage by 2017. Last week, Beijing also announced a set of color-coded emergency measures for bad pollution days.
Fixing the pollution program will be costly for the Chinese government. Officials say the country will need to spend nearly $817 billion to fight pollution. But the cost of ignoring it could be much worse.
The United States government is back in business. Early Thursday morning, President Barack Obama signed a bill to reopen the government. The budget bill, drafted by Senate late on Wednesday night, raised the government¡¯s debt ceiling and averted a serious economic crisis. "With the shutdown behind us," Obama said after the Senate vote, "we now have an opportunity to focus on a sensible budget that is responsible, that is fair and that helps hardworking people all across this country."
Now that a settlement has been reached, formerly furloughed employees have returned to work, national museums and parks are reopening, and the government¡¯s gears are slowly beginning to turn again.
Reaching an Agreement
Before the shutdown, a federal funding bill went back and forth between the Senate and the House. A major issue was whether or not the government would pay for changes in Obama¡¯s healthcare plan. The Senate, with a Democratic majority, wanted to pass a budget that would fund the new healthcare law. But the House, which has a Republican majority, did not want government money used that way. Because an agreement could not be reached on a budget plan, the government was forced to partially shut down.
Sixteen days later, the two sides have come together to pass a measure that raised the country¡¯s debt ceiling. The debt ceiling is the strict legal limit Congress places on the amount of money that can be borrowed each year. Had this agreement not been met by October 17, the U.S. may not have been able to pay its promised payments. This legislation, or law, will fund the government through January 15. During this time, Obama and Congress will work on a long-term spending plan.
Open for Operation
The effects of the two-week government shutdown were widespread. In addition to national parks, museums, memorials and monuments were off-limits to visitors. Workers at government-run organizations like NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency were furloughed. Part of the new legislation will pay back the 800,000 workers who were without pay during the shutdown.
Early Thursday, the Smithsonian Institution celebrated the government¡¯s reopening on Twitter. "We're back from the #shutdown!" they wrote, announcing that museums would reopen Thursday and the National Zoo in Washington on Friday.
To the delight of many people, that also means the return of the zoo¡¯s popular live Panda cam.
A magnitude 7.7 earthquake rocked Pakistan¡¯s Awaran District on Tuesday afternoon. The quake created widespread damage and killed at least 356 people. Sadly, officials predict that number will rise. The hard-hit district is made up of mostly mud and handmade brick houses that quickly collapsed with the Earth¡¯s tremors. Much of the remote region has been reduced to rubble. But along with destruction came creation. After the quake, a small landmass of mud appeared off the coast of Pakistan.
Struggling to Recover
The Awaran District, located in Pakistan¡¯s Baluchistan province, is in the southwestern region of the country. It is Pakistan¡¯s largest province, but also its poorest and least populated. Rescue efforts have been difficult because of its remote location. A lack of medical facilities has left many survivors without access to necessary treatment and medication. 
The Pakistani military has sent almost 1,000 troops to help with rescue and repair. Army trucks carrying supplies, doctors, and tents for victims to use as shelter are slowly making their way to the hardest hit areas. ¡°It¡¯s a totally mountainous area,¡± says Jam Kamal Khan, a local government official. ¡°There are very few roads, and some areas are not accessible by road.¡±
Earthquake Island
Baluchistan¡¯s mountainous landscape makes it a prime location for earthquakes. Three tectonic plates come together there. Tectonic plates are the pieces that make up Earth¡¯s crust. They are slowly but constantly shifting. Earthquakes occur when these plates bump, slip, and slide. The tremors from this quake were so intense they were felt across the border in New Delhi, India.
The force of Tuesday¡¯s earthquake created an island in the middle of the Arabian Sea. Extreme tectonic activity can cause mud from under the sea to rise to the surface. Combined with natural gases, the mud can gather and collect to form a landmass. ¡°When such a strong earthquake builds pressure, there is the likelihood of such islands emerging,¡± says Zahid Rafi, the head of the Geological Survey of Pakistan. ¡°That big shock beneath the earth causes a lot of disturbance.¡±
According to Pakistani oceanographers, the small new island is about 60 feet high, 100 feet long and 250 feet wide. It sits in an area of the sea that is only about 23 feet deep. Officials are not yet sure whether the island will dissolve over time, or if it is a permanent addition to the Arabic Sea. Scientists will study the mud it is made of to try to predict if it will stay put or eventually sink back into the ocean.
On Sunday night, a powerful typhoon slammed into southern China, destroying thousands of homes and killing at least 25 people. The storm forced hundreds of flight cancellations and shut down train lines and boat services before it weakened on Monday morning.
Path of Destruction
The typhoon has been named Usagi¡ªthe Japanese word for rabbit. A typhoon is a tropical storm with winds stronger than 74 miles per hour. It is the same as a hurricane, but scientists call the storms different names depending on where they occur. A typhoon forms over the northwestern Pacific Ocean, whereas a hurricane is born in the Atlantic Ocean or the northeastern or southern Pacific Ocean. These storms form when tropical winds gather moisture as they pass over water that is at least 80 degrees Fahrenheit.
Usagi tore through the Luzon Strait on Saturday with gusts of up to 132 miles per hour. The Luzon Strait is the narrow waterway that separates Taiwan from the Philippines. Though both island countries were spared the full force of Usagi¡¯s winds, the Philippines suffered at least eight casualties, and Taiwan authorities reported nine people injured by falling trees.
The typhoon made landfall in China¡¯s Guangdong province late on Sunday evening. Guandong is located about 87 miles northeast of Hong Kong, one of the most densely populated cities in the world. All flights to and from the major metropolis were cancelled, leaving many passengers stranded after traveling for the Chinese mid-autumn festival. Shanwei, in Guangdong, was the worst-hit city. Winds of 109 miles per hour blew cars off the road, and in some areas electricity and water supplies were cut off.
Picking Up the Pieces
Authorities in the affected areas of Taiwan, the Philippines, and China have executed emergency response plans to cope with the storm¡¯s damage. According to Chinese news agency Xinhua, Usagi has affected about 5.5 million people, and has destroyed more than 8,000 homes.
"This is the strongest storm we have seen in the past 30 years,¡± a Shanwei resident told Xinhua. ¡°It is really terrible." The worst is over, but the long road to recovery has just begun.
For 20 months the shipwrecked Costa Concordia has been lying on its side near the coast of Giglio, a small Italian island. The steel hulk served as a reminder of a trip that went horribly wrong. But on Tuesday, as part of the largest salvage operation ever conducted, the massive cruise ship was finally moved to the upright position. The next step is for the vessel to be removed from the area entirely.
The Costa Concordia is twice the weight of the Titanic. The ship itself didn't budge for the first three hours of the operation, engineer Sergio Girotto told reporters. He and other engineers worked for 19 hours before Concordia was declared completely upright at 4 a.m. Central European Time. The people of Giglio, having gathered to watch the operation, applauded upon seeing it completed.
¡°I think the whole team is proud of what they achieved because a lot of people didn¡¯t think it could be done,¡± said salvage master Nick Sloane, according to the BBC.
Disaster at Sea
The Costa Concordia capsized on Jan. 13, 2012, after its captain, Francesco Schettino, brought the ship too close to the shore. The ship hit coastal rocks, which caused massive damage and allowed water to pour in. Most of the 4,200 people onboard made it to land safely but more than 30 people were killed in the disaster. Two people remain missing.
The Concordia¡¯s captain is currently on trial for causing a shipwreck and abandoning his ship. The International Maritime Organization (IMO), which regulates ship safety around the world, promised to look at improving safety procedures.
A Daring Operation
The operation to right the ship is called parbuckling. While parbuckling is a standard operation to right capsized ships, it has never before been used on such a huge cruise liner. Workers had been waiting for favorable weather conditions to undertake the operation. On Monday, authorities gave the final go-ahead.
The process was expected to take no more than 12 hours. But problems with the large system of steel chains caused delays. Engineers worked through the night using cables and metal water tanks to roll the ship onto special platforms.
The Concordia is expected to be pulled away from Giglio in the spring of 2014 and turned into scrap metal. The ship¡¯s owner, Costa Cruises, will pay for the recovery, which has already cost more than $800 million.
"We will have a lot of things in the next few days to understand what needs to be done to bring this venture to a conclusion," said Franco Porcellacchia, project manager for Costa Cruises.
Israelis and Palestinians have clashed violently for decades over claims to the same land. Now, for the first time in years, the two groups are planning to resume peace talks on Monday evening in Washington, D.C.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has been working for months to make it possible for the groups to come together to discuss a path to peace. On Sunday, he invited Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, to send negotiating teams to the U.S. capital.
¡°Both leaders have demonstrated a willingness to make difficult decisions that have been instrumental in getting to this point,¡± Mr. Kerry said in a statement. ¡°We are grateful for their leadership.¡±
A Tough Choice
On Sunday, Israeli leaders agreed to release 104 Palestinian prisoners. The release is a key part of the deal to restart the peace process. The plan is for the prisoners to be released in stages, depending on the progress of the talks.
In Israel, the decision to release these prisoners, most of whom have been convicted of killing Israelis, is a controversial one. As Netanyahu discussed the plan with the member of his Cabinet on Sunday, hundreds of Israelis protested outside.
Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat called the decision to release the prisoners ¡°a step toward peace,¡± and said, ¡°I hope that we can use this opportunity that the U.S. has provided for us to resume negotiations.¡±
Laying the Foundation
Erekat and Israeli Justice Minister Tzipi Livni will lead the early talks, in which the groups will discuss a framework for moving forward with negotiations. Once the structure for the talks has been determined, the main goal will be to move on to peace talks that will establish a Palestinian state alongside Israel.
Many worry that the talks will fall apart early on¡ªas they have in the past¡ªeven before the groups have a chance to discuss core issues. Some experts say that President Barack Obama¡¯s involvement could help a great deal.
How much of a role President Obama will play remains to be seen. But he has made clear that he believes it is possible for Israelis and Palestinians to find a path to peace. On a visit to Israel in March, Obama delivered a speech to an audience of young Israelis. ¡°Peace is necessary . . . peace is also just,¡± he said, adding that a deal remains possible.
He¡¯s here! With the world watching, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, also known as Kate, gave birth to a bouncing baby boy on Monday.
The birth of the royal baby topped international news Monday and is expected to cause big celebrations throughout Britain. The media had been eagerly awaiting the baby¡¯s arrival for the past month as Kate¡¯s rumored due date of mid-July approached.
Already, the newest royal has a clear path to power. As the first child of Prince William and Kate, the baby is third in line to the throne. Under Britain¡¯s monarch system, the only two people ahead of the baby are his father William and grandfather, Prince Charles. William¡¯s brother, Prince Harry, will be bumped down to fourth in line.
Now that the royal baby is here, he will no doubt continue to draw international attention. The birth has already sparked big sales of baby-related merchandise at stores in London and throughout Britain. Stores in London have been selling clothes, plates, and other products related to the royal birth, just as they did for William and Kate¡¯s wedding in 2011.
A Day of Excitement
Royal officials announced early Monday morning that Kate was in labor, and traveled to St. Mary¡¯s hospital in central London just before 6 a.m. The duchess gave birth in the private Lindo Wing of the hospital, where Princess Diana also gave birth to William and Harry.
Thousands of well-wishers lined the streets near the hospital and around Buckingham Palace, which is the official workplace of the British monarch system. TIME took to the streets outside of St. Mary¡¯s Hospital and Buckingham Palace to ask the well-wishers what made them so excited about this royal birth. Many people, like 47-year-old Shaun Melass, a real-estate broker from Pretoria, South Africa, on vacation in London, said part of the thrill came from being a part of a historical event and all the hoopla that went with it. ¡°I love the pomp and the ceremony,¡± he said. Peter Davenport, 82, from Richmond, southwest London, was also outside Buckingham Palace on Monday, waiting for news of the birth. ¡°It is all tied back to tradition¡ªit goes back for generations,¡± he said.
The birth was announced with a mix of tradition and social media. The public first heard the news when a royal aide emerges from the hospital with a signed notice. The notice was posted on an easel in public view in front of Buckingham Palace.
At the same time as the bulletin was posted, there was an official announcement on Twitter and the media was formally notified. The document gave the baby's gender, weight, and time of birth. The boy was born at 4:24 p.m. and weighed 8 lbs. 6 oz.
There was a great deal of speculation about the baby¡¯s gender. The royal couple had revealed few details before the birth, preferring to keep Kate¡¯s pregnancy as private as possible.
Royal watchers were particularly interested in the baby¡¯s gender because if the baby had been a girl, this would have been the first time she could have inherited the throne without being nudged aside in favor of a younger brother. Until 2011, rules dating back centuries stated that the crown passed to the oldest son and could only go to a daughter when there were no sons.
However, it could be a while still before the royal couple announces the new baby¡¯s name. When William was born, a week passed before his name was announced. Charles's name remained a mystery for an entire month. Until then, he will be known officially as His Royal Highness, Prince of Cambridge.
A Royal Tradition
England is one of the few countries in the world that still has a monarch system. The Kings and Queens of England were once powerful, ruling over a vast empire. Today, the British monarch¡¯s powers are more limited.
In the past, the royal children were kept apart from their peers and were often raised by governesses. Many royal children attended boarding schools far away from home. Prince Charles went to boarding school at age 8. Kate has said she does not want a nanny to raise her child, but the media has questioned whether that will be possible with all of the new mother¡¯s royal responsibilities.
Over the past several days, conflict has erupted in Egypt. On Sunday June 30, millions of protesters took to the streets to call for Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi to step down. Three days later, military officers removed him from power.
Protests for and against Morsi have followed and have resulted in deadly clashes. On Monday morning, Egyptian soldiers opened fire on Morsi¡¯s supporters, killing more than 50 people and wounding at least 300. Witnesses said the soldiers fired on Morsi¡¯s supporters while they were praying. But Egypt¡¯s military said the soldiers were attacked first.
Morsi was Egypt¡¯s first democratically elected president. He was elected in 2012 after the 2011 revolution against former president, Hosni Mubarak. But critics say Morsi betrayed the democratic spirit of Egypt¡¯s 2011 revolution. They say he tried to increase the control of his political party, the Muslim Brotherhood. The Muslim Brotherhood is the country¡¯s oldest and largest Islamist organization.
Now, the Egyptian military has made longtime judge Adli Mansour the acting president, a temporary position. At his swearing-in ceremony, Mansour said he had been given the authority and the mission ¡°to amend and correct the revolution of the 25th of January 2011.¡±
A Country in Crisis
Mansour and the Egyptian military have promised that new elections for president and parliament, the country¡¯s legislative body, will take place under the interim government.
¡°Nobody will be excluded, and if they respond to the invitation, they will be welcomed,¡± Mansour said of a future government.
However, that inclusive vision seems increasingly unlikely as the Muslim Brotherhood said it would not work with the new government. In a move that is likely to further inflame the situation, the Freedom and Justice party, the Muslim Brotherhood¡¯s political group, called on Egyptians to rise up against the army.
An Uncertain Future
After the violence Monday morning, Interim President Mansour called for restraint and ordered an investigation into the killings. Significantly, the statement from his office seemed to support the military¡¯s version of events, saying that the killings followed an attempt to storm the Republican Guard¡¯s headquarters. This is the name of the building where supporters believe Morsi is being kept.
Pro-reform leader Mohamed ElBaradei spoke out against the violence and also called for an investigation. ¡°Peaceful transition is [the] only way,¡± he wrote on his Twitter account.
Regardless of the reason for the violence, the growing chaos will further complicate Egypt¡¯s relations with the United States. The U.S. and other allies had supported Morsi as the country¡¯s first freely elected leader and now are rethinking policies toward the military-backed group that forced him out.
President Barack Obama announced in a statement that he was ¡°deeply concerned¡± by the developments and called on the Egyptian military to ¡°move quickly and responsibly to return full authority back to a democratically elected civilian government as soon as possible through an inclusive and transparent process.¡±
Still, Morsi¡¯s supporters refuse to recognize the change in leadership and vow to continue protesting. His opponents are also holding rallies, and neither side shows sign of stopping soon.
Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the world. But that hasn¡¯t stopped thousands of people from climbing it successfully. Wednesday marks 60 years since climbers first reached the top of the 29,035-foot-mountain. As this anniversary arrives, more daredevils are stepping up to take on the challenge¡ªand breaking records along the way. 
On Thursday, Japanese climber Yuichiro Miura, 80, broke the record for the oldest person to climb Everest. But the record may not stand for very long. Miura¡¯s longtime rival Min Bahadur Sherchan, 81, is right on his tail. Sherchan plans to climb the mountain this week. If he makes it to the top, he will break Miura's record.
For now, Miura is satisfied with his accomplishment. ¡°This is the best feeling in the world,¡± he wrote on his Facebook page. ¡°I¡¯ve never felt like this in my life. But I've never been more exhausted than this."
History of the Heights
Mount Everest was named after Welsh geographer and surveyor Sir George Everest in 1865. He was the first person to record the location and height of the mountain.
But it was Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay who truly reached new heights. On May 29, 1953, they became the first two people to climb to the top of Mt. Everest. Tenzing was a mountain climber from Nepal and Hillary was a beekeeper from New Zealand. At the summit, the two men hugged each other with relief and joy but they only stayed on the ¡°crown of the Earth" for 15 minutes. At that height, they were low on oxygen. Hillary and Tenzing¡¯s achievement came just two days after a British expedition, led by John Hunt, came within 330 feet of the summit. 
The Government of Nepal has organized Mt. Everest Diamond Jubilee Celebrations between May 27 and 29, 2013, to commemorate the first ascent. During the festival, a two-day international conference is being held to discuss the effects of climate change and tourism on the mountain. Some climbers will even collect and bring down old garbage from the slopes to help clean up Everest.
Old Rivals
Yuichiro Miura and Min Bahadur Sherchan have competed against each other for years to set a world record on Mt. Everest. On May 26, 2008 Miura reached the summit at the age of 75 years and 227 days, according to Guinness World Records. But he failed to set a record¡ªSherchan had scaled the summit the day before, at the age of 76 years and 340 days. 
Miura has gotten plenty of attention for other adventures, however. In 1964, he briefly set a world speed skiing record, having achieved 107 miles per hour in the Italian Alps. In 1970, he became the first person to ski down Mt. Everest with help from a parachute. And in 2003, at age 70, he set the record for the oldest person to climb Everest. That milestone was broken four years later when fellow Japanese climber Katsusuke Yanagisawa ascended the mountain at age 71. 
Miura¡¯s recent record breaker on Everest marks his third ascent of the world¡¯s highest mountain. "I think three times is enough," he told reporters. "At this point I [cannot] think of anything but rest."
On the official website for his expedition, Miura explained his attempt to scale Everest at such an advanced age: ¡°It is to challenge (my) own ultimate limit. It is to honor the great Mother Nature."
On Monday, rescue teams rushed to reach isolated parts of China¡¯s Sichuan province after a deadly earthquake struck the area on April 20. The quake struck at 8:02 as Ren Keming, 19, was preparing for his school sports day. ¡°I was in the middle of getting changed when the room started to rock, things began to shake all over the place,¡± he said. Ren did as many others did and raced to the ground floor to join his teachers in the gymnasium, where the floor was wide and flat.
Saturday¡¯s quake killed more than 188 people and injured more than 11,000. Nearly two-dozen people are still missing. Authorities say Sichuan has experienced more than 2,200 aftershocks since the quake struck. China's Earthquake Administration measured the event at a magnitude 7.0 while the U.S. Geological Survey said it was a magnitude 6.6 quake. Many of the hardest hit areas were rural farming areas.
In Longmen village, authorities said nearly all the buildings had been destroyed during the frightening minute-long shake. Farmer Fu Qiuyue, 70, was working in a field when she heard explosions. ¡°I turned around and saw my house simply flattening in front of me,¡± she said. ¡°It was the scariest sound I have ever heard.¡±
An All-Too Familiar Heartbreak
Lushan is one of the hardest-hit areas. It is home to 1.5 million people. Saturday¡¯s earthquake happened along the same fault line where a deadly quake struck in May 2008. That magnitude 7.9 quake killed more than 90,000 people.
Saturday morning, many people were at home, sleeping or having breakfast when disaster struck. Aftershocks continued to shack the region and tens of thousands of people moved into tents or cars, unable to return home or too afraid to go back.
Chinese Premier Le Keqiang arrived in Ya'an on Saturday afternoon. He visited those injured in hospitals and tents. ¡°The current priority is to save lives,¡± he said.
Rain on the first night after the quake slowed rescue work. Boulders from landslides blocked roads and made it difficult for relief teams to reach victims. The crews used dynamite to blast through the rubble-blocked roads. Many rescuers hiked through the rural hills to reach victims and led sniffer dogs to search for survivors.
Authorities in Ya¡¯an said more than 2,000 rescuers were dispatched to the disaster area, bringing with them 200 tents and 1,400 quilts. The Chinese Red Cross deployed relief teams with food, water, medicine and rescue equipment to the disaster areas. People packed cars with supplies and headed to the disaster area. Anticipating traffic congestion that could hamper emergency teams, the government issued a notice on Monday asking volunteers, tourists and others not trained as rescuers to stay out of the disaster area.
In Lushan, quake survivors formed long lines in front of trucks and stalls to receive instant noodles, bottled water and other supplies. About 2,000 people gathered at a truck handing out bottled water on Monday. Ji Yanzi loaded a vehicle with cartons to take to her family of 10. ¡°We're so grateful for these donations, ¡± she said.
You may have heard about North Korea in the news recently. The secretive, communist country has a troubled relationship with many nations, including South Korea and the United States. Why is this small country currently causing so much concern?
A Rising Threat
Kim Jong Un is the leader of North Korea. His father, Kim Jong Il, led the country from 1994 until 2011. Both leaders have used military threats to display their power and control. North Korea has one of the world's largest armies, with access to destructive nuclear weapons. 
On Tuesday, North Korean officials warned all foreigners to leave South Korea for their own safety. Though the U.S. and South Korea say they have not seen any military movement or clear signs that nations are on the brink of a war, tensions are high.
Many countries, including the United States, have spoken out against North Korea. On Monday, China¡¯s President, Xi Jinping, said no country ¡°should be allowed to throw a region and even the whole world into chaos for selfish gain." 
A Long History of Conflict
North Korea and South Korea share a history, a language and a peninsula. But for more than 60 years, conflict and distrust have separated the nations. Korea was a colony of Japan from 1910 to 1945. After Japan¡¯s defeat in World War II, Korea was divided into two countries. The split became permanent in 1948. North Korea established a communist government. South Korea became a republic. Each wanted to reunify Korea under its own government.
On June 25, 1950, the North Korean military invaded South Korea, starting the Korean War. A cease-fire agreement was signed in July 1953. A demilitarized zone (DMZ) was created along the border dividing North and South. Soldiers patrol each side of the DMZ. Millions of families are separated. Tension between the two nations runs high.
While South Korea has become an industrial giant, North Korea has many economic problems. In years past, South Korea tried to improve relations by giving aid to North Korea. But the North has not let down its guard, continuing to grow its army and nuclear-weapons program. Because of this, South Korea and the U.S. stopped food aid to North Korea.
On February 12, North Korea conducted an underground nuclear test. It was the country¡¯s third nuclear test since 2006. Two weeks later, South Korea¡¯s new President, Park Geun-hye, took office. In her first official speech as President, she called North Korea¡¯s nuclear program ¡°a challenge to the survival and future of the Korean people.¡± Park has said she hopes to engage North Korea in talks and build trust through aid. But it appears that North Korea may not be willing to meet South Korea halfway. 
In London, England, the flag at No. 10 Downing Street¡ªhome of Britain¡¯s Prime Minister¡ªis flying half-mast in remembrance of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who died on April 8 after a stroke. She was 87 years old.
One of the most influential world leaders of the 20th century, Thatcher helped pave the way for female political leaders. In 1979, Thatcher became Britain's first female Prime Minister¡ªBritain¡¯s top elected office. She served until 1990, which makes her the only British leader to serve three consecutive terms. Her high standards and strong will earned her the nickname Britain's Iron Lady.
¡°We¡¯ve lost a great Prime Minister, a great leader, a great Briton,¡± current Prime Minister David Cameron said. ¡°As our first woman Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher succeeded against all the odds.¡±
A Life of Politics
Thatcher was born Margaret Hilda Roberts on October 13, 1925, in Grantham, Lincolnshire, in eastern England. She was the daughter of Beatrice and Alfred Roberts, a grocery store owner who later became Grantham¡¯s mayor. As a teen, she was a passionate debater. She went on to get a degree in chemistry at Oxford University, in England, where she became involved in political organizations. After graduating, she worked as a chemist and married businessman Denis Thatcher in 1951. Two years later, she had twins, Mark and Carol.
After several years of failed campaigns, Thatcher earned her first elected position as the Member of Parliament from Finchley, an area in Greater London, in 1959. She was recognized for her intelligence and energy. When Edward Heath was elected Prime Minister in 1970, he made Thatcher his Secretary of State for Education and Science. She became the first woman to lead a major political party in Britain in 1975 as the elected leader of the Tory Party.
The Iron Lady
Thatcher became Britain¡¯s Prime Minister on May 4, 1979. A conservative leader, her goals included shrinking the government, cutting public expenses, cutting income tax and fighting against labor unions. Her blunt and stubborn style of politics at first made her unpopular in Britain, which was still struggling after the end of World War II.
Then, in 1982, the Argentina military invaded the Falkland Islands, a British territory in the South Atlantic Ocean. Thatcher quickly launched a campaign to take back the islands. Britain won the two-month-long war, restoring national pride and earning Thatcher respect. She won reelection in 1983 and 1987.
While in office, Thatcher transformed Britain¡¯s economy and politics, beginning what many call the ¡°Thatcher Revolution.¡± In 1990, she was forced by her party to resign, but she remained in Parliament until she retired in 1992. Sir John Major, who served as Prime Minister for seven years following Thatcher, released a statement after her death. ¡°Her reforms of the economy [and] union law and her recovery of the Falkland Islands elevated her above normal politics,¡± Major said. ¡°And [they] may not have been achieved under any other leader."
1. Change a light
Replace a regular bulb with a more energy-efficient compact fluorescent bulb.
2. Drive less
Walk, bike, use public transportation like a subway, bus or even car pool. Talk to your parents about considering a hybrid, or alternative fuel vehicle. And keep your tires inflated properly.
3. Recycle more
Think before you throw away trash. Recycle instead. Cut down on how much you throw in the trash, which ultimately ends up in a landfill. And be sure to take e-waste, like computers, cell phones and hazardous waste to a special recycling facility.
4. Avoid products with a lot of packaging
When it comes to your shopping habits, consider buying products that are better for the environment or that are made from recycled materials, and have less or no packaging. And when it comes to food, support local farmers markets.
5. Use less hot water
It takes a lot of energy to heat water. Install a low flowing shower head and wash a full load of clothes in cold or warm water.
6. Adjust your thermostat
Moving your thermostat down 2 degrees in winter and up 2 degrees in summer can save a lot of energy. And ask your parents if your local utility company offers alternative power. If so, consider switching.
7. Plant a tree
A single tree will absorb one ton of carbon dioxide over its lifetime.
8. Turn off electronic devices
Simply turning off your TV, DVD player, stereo, and unplugging your iPod and cell phone charger when not in use, will save you thousands of pounds of CO2 a year.
9. Spread the word
Talk to your friends, family and school teachers. Teach them what you've learned and make your house and school as green as possible. Think of ways to raise awareness & educate others, create fund-raisers in your local community to make a change.
10. Go Green
Work to make these changes in your daily life so it becomes second nature.
FedEx delivered some very precious cargo this week. On March 25, two giant pandas were shipped from China to Canada. The bears received a warm welcome to North America from Canada¡¯s Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Chinese ambassador Zhang Junsai.
The pandas will spend 10 years in Canada¡ªfive at the Toronto Zoo, then five at the Calgary Zoo. This is the first time in 20 years that giant pandas have been loaned to a Canadian zoo, according to a FedEx press release. "I want to offer my sincere thanks to the government of China for sharing these two pandas, symbols of peace and friendship, with all Canadians," Prime Minister Harper told the Canadian Press.
Safe Travels
The giant pandas are named Er Shun and Da Mao. Er Shun, a five-year-old female, came from Chongqing Zoo, in southwest China. Da Mao, a four-year-old male, traveled from Chengdu, which is home to China¡¯s top panda research and breeding center.
The two bears traveled in style. FedEx designed a special airplane called the Panda Express, which features a large image of a panda on its exterior. Onboard, Er Shun and Da Mao traveled comfortably in white enclosures with holes for breathing. In the weeks leading up to their departure, the cages were placed in the pandas¡¯ habitats in China so they could get used to them before the long journey.
The panda passengers were given plenty of snacks throughout the flight. Each panda received more than 200 pounds of bamboo and 100 pounds of apples. Yum! 
A Precious Population
Specialists chose these pandas for breeding purposes, as part of an effort to help boost the bears¡¯ population numbers. The World Wildlife Federation estimates that there are only 1,600 giant pandas left in the wild.
The panda¡¯s decline is due in part to the loss of their primary food source, bamboo. The plant makes up 99% of the bears' diet, with some pandas eating about 40 pounds of it a day. According to a recent study published in the science journal Nature Climate Change, warming temperatures are causing a shortage of bamboo in at least one region of China where pandas live.
The climate in Er Shun and Da Mao ¡®s new home in Canada is not ideal for growing bamboo. Twice a week, the Memphis Zoo, in Tennessee, will ship about 700 pounds of the green plant up north to the Toronto Zoo. While the pandas will be far from China, zookeepers plan to make Canada feel like home.
On March 19, Malala Yousafzai, a 15-year-old Pakistani student and women¡¯s-education activist, returned to the classroom on for the first time since being violently attacked by a member of the Taliban on October 9, 2012. Malala was shot on her way home from school in Mingora, Pakistan. The Taliban group Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) took responsibility for the attack. The group said the attack should serve as a warning to others. TTP¡¯s members follow a strict version of Islam and believe girls should not go to school. Malala was targeted because she is vocal about girls¡¯ rights to education in Swat Valley, Pakistan.
After a long period of recovery, Malala is starting as a ninth-year student at Edgbaston High School. It is the oldest independent girls school in Birmingham, England. Though she has no concrete plans to return to Pakistan, Malala still speaks out as a voice for change in her country, and everywhere. ¡°I am excited that today I have achieved my dream of going back to school. I want all girls in the world to have this basic opportunity,¡± Malala said in a statement. ¡°I miss my classmates from Pakistan very much but I am looking forward to meeting my teachers and making new friends here in Birmingham.¡±
Malala¡¯s Journey
Malala has been an Internet blogger, or writer, since she was 11 years old. In 2011 she was awarded Pakistan¡¯s National Peace Award for her bravery in writing about the difficulties of life and education in the shadow of the Taliban. She has spoken publicly about children¡¯s rights and been nominated for an international children¡¯s peace prize.
After the attack in 2012, support for Malala poured in from around the world. The United Nations declared November 10 Malala Day. Former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said the day honors Malala and shows the world that people of all sexes, all backgrounds and all countries stand behind her.
When Florence Nasoore was 12 and living in rural Kenya, in Africa, she wanted nothing more than to continue her education. But for many Kenyan girls, school is not an option. School costs money. Families are more likely to spend it on educating boys. Many girls are forced to marry.
But Florence was able to pursue her dream thanks to Beads for Education. Americans Debby Rooney and Lisa Stevens started Beads. The group matches girls with sponsors who pay for school. Florence was the first of 320 Kenyan girls in third grade through college whom Beads sponsored.
This January, Beads opened a high school. "It's the realization of a dream to provide our girls with the best education possible and prepare them for college and beyond," Stevens told TFK. Rooney was there to dedicate the school.
Bead by Bead
On a 1991 visit to Kenya, Rooney heard about women who were making and selling beaded bracelets, baskets and necklaces, and using the money they earned to send their daughters to school. Two years later, Rooney started Beads by selling the Kenyan crafts in the U.S. Stevens joined the project soon after.
In 1998, Beads began matching girls with sponsors. Since then, the group has helped build three libraries and an elementary school (see "What Money Can Buy"). Beads also helps train teachers.
The new high school is named Tembea, which means "to walk," in Swahili. Florence is walking toward a bright future. She graduated from college in 2010 and is now a teacher. "Florence is the first in her family to finish high school and college," says Stevens. "She is an example of the potential for all girls in Kenya."
Millions of people across China crowded onto trains and buses this week, hurrying home to be with their families for the country's most important holiday, Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival. February 10 marks the end of the Year of the Dragon and the beginning of the Year of the Snake.
More than one billion people worldwide celebrate Lunar New Year. In China, people from Beijing to Guangzhou enjoy a holiday. Businesses and government offices are closed. Many people go to temples to pray for good fortune.
History of the Holiday
The Lunar New Year is celebrated at the second new moon after the winter solstice. The winter solstice, which falls around December 21, is one of two times of the year when the sun is at its greatest distance from the equator. It is also the shortest day of the year.
According to an ancient legend, Buddha asked all the animals to meet him on Lunar New Year. Twelve animals came, and Buddha named a year after each one. The animals were the Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Goat, Monkey, Rooster, Dog and Boar (or Pig).
Water and Wisdom
Buddha announced that people born in each animal's year would have some of that animal's personality. If you were born in 1941, 1953, 1965, 1977, 1989 or 2001, you were born in the Year of the Snake.
The animals are also linked with the five elements ¨C wood, fire, earth, metal and water. Each element has a color: green for wood, red for fire, brown for earth, white for metal and black for water. This year, 2013, is considered the year of the black, or water, snake.
Some people consider the snake bad luck because it is a sly, sneaky animal. But the snake is also a symbol of wisdom and grace. Ancient Chinese wisdom says a Snake in the house is a good sign because it means your family will be cared for. People born in a year of the snake are seen as great thinkers that are good at business. They are said to get along best with people born in the year of the Ox or Rooster.
Festivals, Lions and Feasts
Lunar New Year's Eve is celebrated with family gatherings and festivals. Cities celebrate the 15-day New Year season with firecrackers and fireworks. But this year, officials are asking that celebrations in Beijing, China, use fewer fireworks because of a pollution problem. Last month, Beijing¡¯s pollution hit a record high. It was 30-45 times above recommended safety levels. The thick pollution forced people indoors and made it hard to fly airplanes. Officials want to limit fireworks during the holiday this year to avoid blackening the skies with more thick smoke.
People in China can still celebrate the holiday with other traditionals. One of the most popular ways is with the lion dance. The lion is considered a holy animal. During celebrations, dancers dressed as lions (or holding up elaborate paper lions) perform. The dancers are supposed to bring good luck to the people they visit at their homes or businesses. People often wear red, which symbolizes fire. Legend has it that fire can drive away bad luck. The celebrations end with the Lantern Festival, when brightly colored lamps are hung in parks around China.
Red-tailed hawks are powerful birds. But the hawk that lay on an examination table in New York City was weak and helpless. Wildlife rehabilitators kept a gentle grip on the bird as they inspected the injury above its right eye. The hawk had probably been hit by a car while swooping to grab prey.
"The bird was pretty out of it," says Rita McMahon, cofounder of the Wild Bird Fund (WBF). She helped treat the hawk. Each year, the WBF provides emergency care to about 1,500 sick and injured birds and small mammals in New York City. Often, migrating birds get hurt when they fly into tall buildings. The animals get a full exam, X-rays, blood tests and medicine, if needed. Extra help is provided by two nearby veterinary hospitals.
Frequent Fliers
Patients at the WBF have included geese, ducks, swans and hummingbirds. In November, a wild turkey was brought in with a fractured leg. But pigeons are the WBF's most frequent winged patients. The birds are abundant in New York.
On a recent TFK visit to the WBF, we saw about 50 pigeons lined up in cages against a wall. At the sink, a volunteer soaped and scrubbed a pigeon whose feathers were coated with cooking oil. The oil had made it hard for the bird to fly. That's a common problem, McMahon explained, caused by pigeons' fondness for food scraps. "A lot of birds like to live under hot-dog carts," she said. "They come in very fat¡ªand very greasy."
And what about that red-tailed hawk? McMahon says it is expected to make a full recovery and will soon be flying free.
As fast as a cheetah. Whether it's describing a car, a computer or the best runner in the race, the comparison is made all the time. It's for good reason, too. The cheetah is the speediest runner on Earth.
Quick as the cheetah may be, though, it is far from invincible. The pale-yellow cat with black spots was once a common sight throughout Africa and much of Asia. Just over 100 years ago, there were about 100,000 cheetahs in the world.
But in the the 20th century, that number dropped. Poachers captured cheetahs to sell as pets. Hunters shot them for sport. And people built cities and towns where the cats' habitat used to be. Today, there are only about 10,000 cheetahs left (see Map It Out!).
Laurie Marker, founder of the Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF), has spent nearly 40 years studying the wild cat and coming up with ways to help it. She says it is still possible to save the cheetah. "I do believe we can turn back time," she told TFK. "We now have the tools, and we know what to do."
A Brighter Future for the Cats
In 1977, Marker moved to Namibia, a country in southern Africa where a once-thriving cheetah population was quickly shrinking. Farmers were killing the wild cats. "It's not that the people wanted to kill cheetahs," says Marker. They were trying to protect their farm animals.
Marker had an idea. She knew that for thousands of years, farmers in Turkey had used special dogs, called Anatolian shepherds, to protect their livestock. These guard dogs scare away predators without hurting them. "They bark loudly," says Marker. "They stand their ground."
About 20 years ago, Marker and her team began placing the dogs on Namibian farms. Since then, she says, "we've stopped the killing and doubled the country's cheetah population."
Another major challenge facing cheetahs is habitat destruction. When farmers keep too much livestock in the same place for too long, overgrazing occurs. Without grass to eat, many wild animals¡ªincluding those that the cheetah preys on¡ªcannot survive. And the cheetah too is left without a meal.
In Namibia, CCF is teaching farmers how to take care of their livestock without harming the land. The organization has worked with more than 3,000 farmers. "Our farmers are very interested," says Marker. "They want that information."
The goal, Marker says, is for people, livestock and wild cheetahs to live in harmony. "That's my vision," she says, "and it's doable."
Seattle, Washington, may be nicknamed ¡°Rain City¡±, but it¡¯s snow that¡¯s making it famous. On January 12, Seattle residents set the Guinness World Record for the largest snowball fight. More than 5,800 people showed up to toss snowballs at one another at the Seattle Center, a park, arts and entertainment campus that includes the city¡¯s famous Space Needle.
It didn¡¯t snow in Seattle on that day, but there was snow in a small corner of the city ¡ª enough to make a lot of kids¡¯ dreams come true. Trucks hauled 34 loads of snow from Snoqualmie Pass, an hour away in Washington¡¯s Cascade mountain range, to the Seattle Center. It took 162,000 pounds of the white stuff to build the winter wonderland.
The goal? To break the Guinness World Record for biggest snowball fight. The event, dubbed ¡°Snow Day,¡± was also a fundraiser for the Boys and Girls Clubs of King County. Seattle businessman Neil Bergquist took three months to organize the playful battle. He wanted to raise money for kids ¡°by remembering what it was like to feel like a kid.¡±
Blasting Records
Although Seattle residents aren¡¯t used to snow, they succeeded in getting enough people to come out and play. About 6,000 tickets were sold online, and participants were given bar-coded wristbands when they arrived. The wristbands were scanned as event-goers entered and left the location, so Guinness had a head count at all times. There were 130 judges for the official minute-and-a-half snowball fight. Anyone not throwing snowballs was not counted in the total, Bergquist said Monday.
To raise money for the Boys and Girls Club, companies paid for space to build their own snow forts. Some highlights included a snow slide and even a few snow toilets. A Guinness official confirmed the count of 5,834 people. Seattle beat the previous world record of about 5,400 at a 2010 snowball fight in South Korea.
"We had a lot of fun, set a Guinness record, raised some money for kids, and everyone had a chance to act like a kid for a day," Bergquist said. 