COMAC unveils business jet at aviation show at Hongqiao 
2019-04-17
THE Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China unveiled its first CBJ business jet at the opening of the Asian Business Aviation Conference & Exhibition at Hongqiao Airport yesterday.
The CBJ aircraft is one of the ARJ21 serial products and follows the same production as China’s first home-developed regional jet.
COMAC is taking part in the exhibition for the first time this year and displaying a model and drawings of the CBJ, which is expected to compete with foreign rivals.
The CBJ business jet features more cabin space than rivals in the same class. It can be configured with 12 to 29 seats, a separate VIP bedroom, lounge, meeting room, sitting room and dining section, depending on the demands of the customer.
The domestically made jet also has better soundproofing, cutting engine noise to 55 decibels — quieter than that on a busy street. With a range of 5,500 kilometers, it can adapt to a wide variety of flying conditions, from extreme temperatures to high altitudes and strong crosswinds.
COMAC said it will introduce the development of its business aviation sector and negotiate with potential clients during the exhibition.
The annual business aviation exhibition has been dominated by foreign manufacturers since it began in 2012.
This year, more than 30 of the world’s most advanced business aircraft from Airbus, Embraer, Dassault, Textron and Bombardier were showcased on the tarmac at Hongqiao as part of the exhibition which ends tomorrow.
The ARJ21 began commercial flights on June 28, 2016, with mass production starting from September 2017.
Currently, Chengdu Airlines operates 11 ARJ21s to 20 Chinese cities. The jet has also been delivered to its second operator, the newly established Genghis Khan Airlines based in Inner Mongolia.
The ARJ21 fleet has transported about 320,000 passengers since 2016, COMAC said yesterday.
More than 100 ARJ21s will be delivered in the next five years, as COMAC takes on the regional jets market leaders Bombardier and Embraer.
