AI, 5G transforming auto world 
2019-04-17
Artificial intelligence and 5G mobile technologies — set to transform the global car market and change our daily lives — were showcased at the Shanghai auto show yesterday.
Features at this year’s show, the industry’s biggest marketing event in China of the year, range from AI driver assistance to driverless trucks and buses.
In addition to bringing together leading local and international automakers, the show also attracted other big names such as Huawei, China Mobile, Bosch, ZF and local startup Westwell.
The media had a sneak preview of the Shanghai International Automobile Industry Exhibition offerings before it opens to professional visitors tomorrow and the public on Saturday.
Huawei, attending for the first time, displayed its intelligent driving computing platform with self-developed AI chips and 5G-related infrastructure. It supports a “smooth upgrade” from L2 (vehicles with smart features) to L5 (fully self-driving).
Bosch, the world’s leading auto parts vendor, showed off a concept self-driving bus which it says will “shape the future of electrified, connected, automated and personalized mobility.”
Bosch’s advanced driver assistance systems saw business in China grow 30 percent in 2018 year on year and the company is looking for Chinese partners to help shape a new ecosystem for its mobility services.
Shanghai-based AI startup Westwell displayed its self-driving new-energy truck, which uses AI technologies in visual recognition, environment-detection and extreme precision positioning.
The truck, with an AI-featured chip developed by Westwell, is expected to be used in ports and mining operations, including in Belt and Road countries and regions, from later this year. It can be fully charged within two hours. Its Q-Truck is a totally “new AI device” to meet special demands in various areas, said Westwell CEO Tan Limin.
German car parts maker ZF made the world debut of its AI driver assistance system, coPILOT.
“We’re pursuing strategies that resonate with China’s goal of clean, safe and affordable transportation solutions and we’ll continue to help improve the safety and experience of the daily commute,” said CEO Wolf-Henning Scheider. “China is at the forefront of adopting innovation on a fast and broad scale and we’re confident of seeing a prosperous automotive and mobility market here for many years to come.”
Based on its AI platform for semi-autonomous driving and chipmaker NVIDIA’s auto solutions, coPILOT will be ready for volume production from 2021.
Scheider expects the Asia Pacific region to contribute 30 percent of global sales in the future through localizing its production and R&D capacity.
Last year China accounted for about 17 percent of ZF’s global revenue. Expansion projects for four plants for chassis and transmission components are expected to be completed within 18 months.
