May OKs Huawei to help develop UK 5G network 
2019-04-25
British Prime Minister Theresa May has given the green light to Chinese telecoms giant Huawei to help build Britain’s new 5G network, a major British newspaper says.
May made the decision “despite warnings from the US and some of her most senior ministers that it poses a risk to national security,” the Daily Telegraph reported on its website.
The British National Security Council, which is chaired by the prime minister, agreed on Tuesday to allow Huawei limited access to help build parts of the network such as antennas and other “non-core” infrastructure, said the newspaper.
Huawei has signed 40 contracts by April 15 to build and operate 5G telecommunication infrastructure, it said last week. Ken Hu, deputy chairman of the company, made the announcement in a keynote speech at its 2019 Global Analyst Summit at its headquarters in Shenzhen in southern China.
It is expected to take 5G three years, from 2019 to 2022, to hit the milestone of 500 million users in the world, said Hu.
Huawei’s chief representative to the European Union said last month it welcomes the objective approach of the European Commission’s recommendation on 5G security.
“Huawei welcomes the objective and proportionate approach of the European Commission’s recommendation on 5G security. Huawei understands the cyber security concerns that European regulators have. Based on mutual understanding, Huawei looks forward to contributing to the European framework on cyber security,” said a statement.
“We are firmly committed to continuing working with all regulators and partners to make the 5G rollout in Europe a success.”
The statement is attributed to Abraham Liu, chief representative of Huawei to the EU institutions, on the occasion of the publication of the EC’s recommendation on security for 5G.
Founded in 1987, Huawei is a private company fully owned by its employees and focuses on providing information and communications technology infrastructure and smart devices.
The company operates in more than 170 countries and regions with more than 180,000 employees.
