Over 200,000 expected at AI meet 
2019-08-29
NOBEL laureates, researchers, IT scientists and leaders of dot-com giants will attend China’s top AI event, which opens in Shanghai today.
Over 300 speakers, half of them from overseas, will talk about the latest trends and AI development at the World Artificial Intelligence Conference 2019. More than 300 exhibitors will showcase technologies and devices covering artificial intelligence chips, 5G, smart driving, smart cities and the Internet of Things.
With the theme “Intelligent Connectivity, Infinite Possibilities,” WAIC will be held at the Pudong New Area and at the Xuhui District until Saturday.
“AI offers Shanghai the opportunity to improve its international competitiveness,” Li Qiang, Shanghai Party chief said yesterday at a symposium.
“Shanghai plans to integrate AI technology and 5G and apply them in the fields of medicine, education, finance, industry and urban management, to set an example in the new era,” Li said.
Two Nobel laureates Finland’s E.Kydlan and George Fitzgerald Smoot III will attend the conference.
Alibaba Group co-founder and executive chair Jack Ma and Tesla Inc’s CEO Elon Musk will have a conversation at the opening of the WAIC 2019.
Other business executives include Tencent’s chairman Pony Ma, Chen Wei from Didi Chuxing and Lee Kaifu, chairman and chief executive of Sinovation Ventures, who has previously worked for Microsoft, Apple and Google.
Past exhibitors are back again this year, such as Microsoft, Amazon, BAT (referring to Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent) and Huawei. New exhibitors include Tesla, IBM, ABB, Fanuc, PingAn Group and State Grid.
The spotlight of the exhibition is a “Chip Wall,” which will showcase 10 AI chips from seven companies. They include Huawei’s Kirin 810, Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 855 and Unisoc’s Tiger T710.
More than 200,000 visitors, including 70,000 professionals, will attend the event. They will get to try out AI experiences covering self-driving cars, smart hotel, retail store and VR/AR technologies.
The conference reinforces Shanghai’s role as a leading player of the new technology. New policies, investments and business opportunities will be announced at the event.
“Artificial intelligence has become a core driving force for the new round of industrial transformation and is exerting a profound impact on the world’s economy, social progress and human life,” said Wu Jincheng, chairman of the Shanghai Commission of Economy and Information Development.
