Mary Kay’s China chief has no time for any limits 
2019-10-28
Katherine Weng, CEO of Mary Kay China, is impressive with her beauty and elegance — qualities necessary for working in the beauty industry. 
But the key to her success as a business woman, in her words, is the courage to set no limits for herself, and this quality is especially valued at Mary Kay.
“Our company pays special interest in stimulating women’s potential,” she says.
“It is a core value at Mary Kay, which has driven many women to become good leaders and have a better self,” said Weng, who has won Shanghai Daily’s award for women leaders.
Having been working at Mary Kay for 24 years since her graduation from La Trobe University in Australia, Weng has rotated through nine different positions at Mary Kay. 
As the first employee on the Chinese mainland for US-based Mary Kay, she was encouraged to try many “firsts” and later lead others to create many “firsts.”
“I remember the day when the company demanded I set up the Shanghai branch. ‘But how?’ I asked … The answer I got is that ‘just take your time and try.’
“I love this feeling of being trusted and given the authority. I was motivated, and later I was successful in setting up the firm here in Shanghai.”
It is typical of the corporate culture at Mary Kay, whose founder Mary Kay Ash changed the world of business by creating more opportunities for women 56 years ago when the workplace was dominated by men.
At Mary Kay, it was always “mission possible” instead of “mission impossible.” This core value, inspired by its founder, has put many women in control of their own future.
“Never, absolutely never, compromise your principles,” Mary Kay once said.
“Working at Mary Kay gives people confidence, which can empower them to be more energetic and creative,” Weng said. “Mary Kay is a good platform for women to pioneer in their career, and it has been focusing on helping women have a successful career.”
Weng was one of those inspired by Mary Kay’s culture. She has pioneered in many new business models, such as implementing the digital strategy at Mary Kay China in as early as 2002 —  even before the Taobao.com became popular. 
Last year, Mary Kay’s brand new office building, located in Shanghai’s downtown with an investment of more than 800 million yuan (US$112.35 million), started operation and became a symbol of success. 
The move closely followed Mary Kay China’s upgraded production center for the Asia Pacific region and its technology center in Zhangjiang High-tech Park in the Pudong New Area — all indicated Mary Kay’s strong confidence in the Chinese market.
Also, Mary Kay has extended its scope from cosmetics to health care, and further enriched its product lines that better serve women’s changing tastes for beauty.
Appointed chief of Mary Kay China this year, Weng has become busier than ever. But she is confident in  the TNT principle — “Today, not tomorrow” — also inspired by Mary Kay Ash.
“I can achieve high efficiency at work and a balance of life through self-discipline and self-management,” Weng said.
For her, being a woman is never an obstacle for career development. Instead, a woman leader is more inclusive, considerate and pays more attention to tailored needs of customer, which is secret of Mary Kay’s success in China.
“Don’t set limitations for yourself because you are a woman, and try to love yourself more because you are a woman,” Weng says.
