Wuzhen meet displays ‘tech achievements’ 
2019-10-21
A BATCH of technologies and products, including cyber security system, smart driving car and industrial robots, are displayed at the ongoing Sixth World Internet Conference in Wuzhen.
After six years, the event has become a stage for both giants and startups to showcase the latest technologies and products.
The “World Leading Internet Scientific and Technological Achievements” were released at the conference yesterday.
The projects, selected by a group of nearly 40 experts from all over the world, cover artificial intelligence, 5G, big data, cloud computing, digital manufacturing, industrial Internet and other Internet-related fields.
During the Achievements ceremony, 360 released an Internet vulnerability radar system All-Seeing Eye. The system, representing the country’s top cybersecurity level, can offer “effective and early” warning for cyber attacks, which leads to billions of dollars of losses annually, said Li Jianhua, senior vice president of 360.
As the country’s No. 1 Internet security firm, 360 offers security services to hundreds of millions of personal users and organizations every day, detecting potential risks.
Besides 360, firms including Alibaba, Microsoft, Tencent, Tesla and Yitu also released Achievement technologies.
Cheetah Mobile, which is transforming business on artificial intelligence, called smart robots as “milestones of economic revolution” to brings real changes to our daily life, said Fu Sheng, chief executive of the New York-listed company.
Currently, the company’s 5,000 robots are being used in 20 industrial areas such as museums, libraries, hotels and banks, covering 130 million people.
Startup SmartEarth released its latest Digital Twin technology during the event, featuring sensor, data processing, simulation, virtual reality, 3D modeling and intelligent control.
The technology is used in urban management, industrial and smart driving sectors, the company said.
Speakers also shared opinions on the theme of “Intelligent Interconnection for Openness and Cooperation: Building a Community with a Shared Future in Cyberspace.”
Over the next decade, 5G will become an important engine to drive economy, through combination with artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things, said John Hoffman, CEO of GSMA.
