CIIE, a hub of new cutting-edge technology 
2019-11-01
A dazzling variety of the latest products and services are about to go on display at the second China International Import Expo, which is to open on Tuesday. Shanghai Daily previews some of the brands in the auto, technology and household world.
Coffee machine Maestosa
Maestosa, a bean to cup coffee machine and De’Longhi’s top model, will make its debut in China at the second CIIE.
Designed to offer exceptional taste and pure pleasure, its exclusive adaptive grinding technology perfectly controls the grinding of the preferred coffee blends to release the maximum aroma and flavor. This allows you to taste authentic Italian espresso or the original milk and coffee specialties.
You can choose your coffee blend from two bean containers and make two milk-based beverages at the same time thanks to the double outlet of the milk carafe, with creamy milk foam produced by an automatic LatteCrema System.
You can also create new recipes, customize aroma and quantity and manage profiles via display and a coffee link app. Major highlights of Maestosa include: multibeverage function; tubeless system which reduces the amount of coffee powder left inside the grinders to a minimum; swivelling touch display and temperature control that features two independent and simultaneously working heating systems — one for coffee brewing and the other for milk preparation.
(Cao Qian)
2020 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray
US automaker General Motors will showcase its 2020 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray, the company's first mid-engine model for the iconic sports car nameplate and its fastest entry ever.
Supporting its strong power delivery is an engine mount that uses an innovative lightweight material developed at the GM China Advanced Technical Center in Shanghai.
The 2020 Stingray is reimagined to bring customers new levels of performance, technology, craftsmanship and luxury. Design inspired by racing and aeronautics, its exterior has a bold, futuristic expression.
The model is designed for superior ride comfort on the highway and a well-balanced handling on the track. It is the fastest 0-60 time of any entry Corvette ever, under three seconds, when equipped with Z51 Performance Package.
General Motors will have a lineup of models to showcase utility, versatility and luxury, highlighting a dynamic vehicle at the 2019 China International Import Expo from November 5-10 in Shanghai.
(Hu Yumo)
Zeiss Kinevo 900
Zeiss KINEVO 900, a robotic visualization system, is a powerful robotic microsurgery platform for neurosurgery, spinal surgery, otolaryn — gology, head and neck surgery and plastic surgery. Compared to the traditional operating microscope, it is designed to deliver more functionalities than any surgical microscope today.
Zeiss KINEVO 900 combines digital and optical visualization modalities, offers a unique micro-inspection tool and will impress users with its surgeon — controlled robotics. All to enable the user to gain greater certainty in a virtually disruption-free workflow.
It has over 100 innovations to perfect the already acclaimed surgical visualization platform.
The microscopy and micro-inspection inspection tool helps doctors quickly make decisions to master a complex situation.
(Zhu Shenshen)
DIBAO
 
Decathlon Group, from France, one of the world’s biggest integrated sporting goods retailers, has sent an RFID robot to CIIE 2019 for its world premiere.
The robot, named DiBao, is known as the first robot combined with RFID and AI technology to be working in new retail in the world.
The robot uses 360-degree-laser SLAM technology to model and auto-navigate. By laser-visual-sonar multi-sensor fusion technology, it can avoid obstacles and ensure safety in retail stores.
As a new model of retailing inventory, DiBao spends only two hours a day to make a full auto-inventory for a 4,000-square-meter store, with reading accuracy rate of 99.2 percent and a labor saving cost of 90 percent.
DiBao can upload all data to Decathlon’s own business system, auto-correct and real-time manage the online and offline stock and supply. According to AI calculation and diagnosis for big data, DiBao can also answer questions and resolve problems for a store’s staff. DiBao discovers ways to enhance customer experience, facial recognition, payment on robot and conversation by voice interaction.
“China is the most important market for us. More and more innovations for retailing transformation is happening now,” Bernard Maugein, Decathlon China’s operations director, told Shanghai Daily.
(Huang Yixuan)
EYEVIZ 300
Eyeviz 300, by French lens and visual health leader Essilor Group, is an ophthalmic diagnostic device that measures the potential deficit of binocular vision and vision acuity problems.
The kids-friendly programs were specially designed for them to stay focused.
The device is able to conduct digitalized binocular vision assessment. It is facilitated with an eye tracking system and active-sight glasses that make tests more comfortable and easy to perform and its unique reading analysis also reveals reading behavior.
(Ding Yining)
