Amorepacific: new products, double displays 
2019-11-05
Asia’s leading beauty company Amorepacific will showcase nearly 400 products and 11 well-known beauty brands at the second China International Import Expo from November 5 to 10.
Amorepacific is a global company with over 20 cosmetics, personal care and health care brands. Among these are the immensely popular global brands Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, ETUDE HOUSE and innisfree.
Designated as one of the top 100 most innovative companies by American business magazine Forbes, Amorepacific has charted a solid growth path by pioneering new beauty categories, such as sleeping masks, boosting essences and cushion products.
This year, Amorepacific will double its exhibits from the year earlier, highlighting the new IOPE tailored mask, makeon Skin Light Therapy II and other latest customized and intelligent skincare services.
The company will introduce the second-generation IOPE tailored mask that can create a customized sheet mask pack for customers on the spot by leveraging 3D printing technology.
The speed and accuracy of 3D printing technology has been upgraded from what was displayed at the first CIIE last year. The machine can collect 13 dimensions of accurate facial data by measuring the customer’s eyes, nose, lips, the contours of their forehead, and other aspects of their face shape to make sure that a perfectly fitting mask can be produced.
After a skin analysis, the machine can apply several kinds of serums in a single mask to match with the skin types and textures of different facial parts.
Amorepacific will also present the makeon Skin Light Therapy II, an intelligent phototherapy Facial Beauty Machine featuring blue, yellow and red light settings to target various skin issues. Customers can have a one-stop skincare experience combining three seconds of skin analysis and another three seconds of intelligent skincare.
The science behind it involves the emission of light in varying spectra, which allows skin cells to naturally heal and improve. The response of the skin also depends on the color and type of the LED light. The blue light boosts hydration; the yellow light brightens and evens out complexion; and the red light increases elastine and collagen production.
In recent years, Amorepacific has been putting more focus on the “Chinese debut” of its new products. Next, Amorepacific will expand investment in research and development, and launch more products targeting Chinese customers, such as the IOPE tailored mask, HERA’s Skintone Finder service and the new brand Primera, which will make its Chinese debut at the CIIE.
HERA’s Skintone Finder service product is Amorepacific’s latest attempt to implement the “Chinese debut” strategy in product development. The group uses exclusive patented technology to carry out customer surveys in China and use the skin data in R&D so as to make it easier for Chinese consumers to find the most suitable color numbers.
LANEIGE’s personalized lip sleeping mask will be launched in the overseas market for the first time. As the company’s star product, the lip sleeping mask is specifically aimed at the group with demands for personalized skincare services, especially the post-1995 generation. Consumers can have the opportunity to participate in the production of their own lip mask by choosing their favorite fragrance.
At the CIIE, Amorepacific’s makeup brand espoir will provide proper lipstick color recommendations and bring a unique experience of color mixing, which allows visitors to produce bi-color lipsticks according to their preferences.
As the leading South Korean cosmetics company, Amorepacific seeks an ideal of beauty “that creates harmony between the inside and the outside, based on deep understanding of nature and humans.” Amorepacific has devoted its best to realize this philosophy of “Asian Beauty” around the world.
Amorepacific’s pursuit of beauty has never stopped. The group continues to give back to society and create social value in three fields — women, natural ecosystem and nurturing culture.
In China, the company partnered with China Women’s Development Foundation to launch the “MAKE UP YOUR LIFE” program, targeting “two cancers” (breast cancer and cervical cancer) that affect women the most.
Over the past four years, the program has been committed to providing free screening for the two cancers for nearly 70,000 women in poverty-stricken areas, and promoting the importance of cancer prevention and self-examination through the Mori Run, after-surgery beauty class, and brand charity sale.
Its luxury brand Sulwhasoo co-established the “Tsinghua University Sulwhasoo Intangible Cultural Heritage Protection Fund” with Tsinghua University. The program is dedicated to the research, protection, innovation and development of Chinese Intangible Cultural Heritage handicraft and personnel training.
The company’s two other brands, LANEIGE and innisfree, have grown 85,500 saplings in the Three Rivers Headwaters region of Qinghai Province and Inner Mongolia autonomous region to promote sustainable consumption and lifestyle.
