Roche maps out innovation journey  of personalized health care at the CIIE 
2019-11-05
Roche Group is presenting an innovation journey of personalized health care at the second China International Import Expo (CIIE) as it delivers on its commitment to bringing more innovative medicines and solutions to Chinese people.
China has identified its ambition to foster high-quality health care and bolster medical innovation to improve the health of Chinese people under the Healthy China 2030 Initiative. Key targets include innovative biotherapy and personalized health care. The CIIE offers an influential platform for China and the world’s leading biopharma companies to jointly depict a future health-care blueprint that is of strategic importance. And all these point to a future of personalized health care that Roche has been investing in for a long time.
“We are so proud to be here for the second year in a row and showcase our innovation expertise in personalized health care with our integrated diagnostic and pharma solutions,” said André Hoffmann, Member of the founding family Hoffmann La Roche and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd. “China plays a vital role for Roche globally. With our strong pipeline, dedicated people and focus on sustainability, we are confident about our long-term growth prospects by bringing more innovative products in China to benefit more Chinese patients.”
At the second CIIE, Roche expends its booth to 700 square meters, one of the biggest in the Medical Equipment & Healthcare Products Hall. The booth design focuses on an entire innovation journey of personalized health care, together with integrated solutions and cutting-edge technologies that fully reflect “doing now what patients need next.” 
At the booth, visitors are immersed in a special Dialogue with DNA, which highlights the significance of developing medicines targeted to specific genetic mutations. Racing against Time provides extraordinary experience that embodies Roche’s determination for developing innovative therapies to benefit more patients faster.
With the increasing use of big data and cloud computing, Roche is using high-value data to provide personalized medicine and desired therapeutic effects for specific patient populations to create a value-based personalized health-care system.
Also, Roche is bringing several leading innovative medicines in the therapeutic fields including immunotherapy, breast cancer and influenza, all of which are set to address the huge unmet medical need in China.
As a promising approach for the treatment of cancer, immunotherapy is widely anticipated in the China market. At the CIIE, Roche is showcasing its blockbuster immunotherapy Tecentriq, which is set to be the first PD-L1 inhibitor to be approved as a first-line treatment for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. It will herald a brighter future for a large number of Chinese patients with liver cancer.
In the field of breast cancer, Roche is displaying Kadcyla, the world’s first antibody-drug conjugate, which will be launched in China in the future as an adjuvant therapy for patients with early-stage HER2-positive breast cancer. It will bring huge benefits to breast cancer patients in China by reducing the risks of recurrence and death. Another breast cancer therapy, Perjeta, is expected to be approved for its third indication, or patients with advanced HER2-positive breast cancer, in China by the year end.
Xofluza, an innovative alternative to its blockbuster Tamiflu, for treating influenza, is making its debut as well. As the first new treatment approved by the FDA in nearly 20 years, Xofluza is a one-dose prescription that helps improve patient compliance and relieve symptoms under a novel acting mechanism.
All these innovative therapies represent Roche’s tirelessly efforts to explore new ways to tackle diseases with huge unmet medical demand under the goal of improving patient outcomes and bringing them closer to cure.
By displaying the innovation journey for personalized health care and strong portfolio of innovative therapies at the CIIE, Roche is further showcasing its commitment to and confidence in China as it has been benefiting from the country’s ongoing health-care reform and the accelerated approval of new drugs in recent years. 
In the past year, Roche has been again demonstrating the amazing “China speed” by quickening the pace of launching several new products in China in a bid to enable more Chinese patients to get access to global advanced therapies at the earliest possible time. For example, Perjeta, an innovative drug for breast cancer, obtained the approval for its second indication in China in August, just eight months after obtaining the first in December 2018. 
Meanwhile, Roche’s five targeted therapies have so far been included in the National Reimbursement Drug List (NRDL) in China, which significantly improves drug affordability and eases the financial burden on patients. As Chinese authorities step up efforts to improve the access of innovative drugs for Chinese people, Roche is actively working with regulators and partners to enable more innovative drugs to enter the NRDL so that more patients can afford these high-quality medications. 
“We are showcasing all these innovative medicines and solutions at the CIIE as the best way to demonstrate our mission of doing what patients need next and our efforts to help people live longer and better,” said Hong Chow, CEO of Roche Pharmaceuticals China. 
“As Chinese regulators continue to accelerate the approval of new drugs, Roche will work closely with the government, medical institutions and social organizations at all levels to enhance innovation capability, and accelerate commercialization and delivery of our innovative drugs so as to bring benefits to more Chinese patients.” 
