I am going to the dentist to have a checkup. Daddy is coming with me. The dentist needs to look at my teeth to make sure they are healthy.
We sit in the waiting room until it's my turn.
I've brought my alligator, Allie, with me.
He needs his teeth checked, too!
It's my turn now! The dentist calls my name. He tells me his name is Doctor Gentille, and that he is going to look at my teeth -- and also Allie's! Daddy is coming with me.
In Doctor Gentille's room, he has lots of tools. Some are very noisy! The tools help Doctor Gentille take care of people's teeth. And his big chair goes up and down -- just like a ride!
Doctor Gentille puts on special clean gloves.
Then I open Allie's mouth really wide, so Doctor Gentille can see all his teeth. I can open my mouth really wide, too!
Can you open your mouth wide like Allie the Alligator?
Doctor Gentille shows me a little mirror. He uses the mirror to help him see people's teeth. I open my mouth wide and Doctor Gentille checks my teeth with the mirror.
Doctor Gentille looks at all my teeth and counts them. I have 20! That means that I have all of my baby teeth. The nurse writes this on my chart.
Doctor Gentille tells me my teeth are clean, but they could be cleaner! He shows Daddy and me how to brush my teeth. We need to brush gently for two minutes, twice a day.
At the end of my checkup, Doctor Gentille says I don't have any cavities -- neither does Allie! Cavities are holes in your teeth. Too much candy and soda can give you cavities.
If I have healthy food and drinks, and brush twice a day, my teeth should stay as good as new. I tell Doctor Gentille not to worry -- I'll show Allie how to do it, too!
Amazing clocks
Look for clocks when you are walking around. All these clocks show the start of the hour.
Take out all the numbers from your foam clock. Now can you put them back in the right order?
Wonderful watches!
Do you wear a watch? Each of these toys has a watch! Can you see which watch belongs to which toy?
It's 8 o'clock. Let's turn the hands on your foam clock to make 8 o'clock
Turn the long hand to 12.
Turn the short hand to what hour o'clock it is.
It's 10 o'clock! Let's turn the hands on your foam clock to make 10 o'clock.
It's 3 o'clock! Make it 3 o'clock on your foam clock.
Day and night
A clock tells us what time it is during the day and the night. Each day has a morning, afternoon, and evening.
Morning
When do you eat your breakfast?
Evening
What time do you take a bath?
Happy hours!
One hour after 2 o'clock is 3 o'clock! Some things take just one hour to do! What are these children doing?
Jack and his puppy are off to the park. What time do they leave?
What time do they get back home?
What time does Jamilla start painting?
What time does Jamilla finish painting?
Jen is baking some bread. What time does she put the bread into the oven?
Time to play
Whoosh! Some things travel very fast. Which toy do you think travels the fastest?
What time does the train leave the station?
Which vehicles move more slowly?
Can you count all the clocks?
I'm going to have a new baby in my family! The baby is going to be my new little brother or sister.
Sometimes I wish the baby was here already so that we could play together. But I have to wait because Mommy says babies take nine months to grow.
The baby is growing inside Mommy's tummy. The baby is very small right now, but as it grows, Mommy's tummy will grow, too.
Mommy's tummy will be big enough for the baby until it is born.
I'm helping Mommy and Daddy to get ready for the new baby.
We buy lots of things that a little baby will need.
I put toys near the crib and a photo of me on the baby's bureau.
Maybe I will lend the baby one of my teddy bears, too!
Guess what? Grandma is coming to stay while Mommy goes into the hospital to have the baby. I'm going to miss Mommy, but I know she will be home soon.
Mommy and Daddy give me a big hug before Grandma and I go off and play. Soon I get to meet my new baby brother or sister!
The baby's here -- it's a boy! Now I am a big brother! Sometimes Mommy lets me hold my new brother in my lap and take care of him.
Mommy and Daddy love me and my new little brother very much.
We need to have good manners, show kindness and respect, because when we're rude to others, very soon we're all upset!
Good manners are important. They make us nice, you see.
And if we're really nice, the world's a better place to be.
So it's time for us to learn the best way to be polite.
Let's learn good manner
Come on, let's try together, then we're sure to get it right!
First let's smile and be friendly, and let's help each other out. Being kind and caring -that's what manners are about!
Next we all must try to learn to take turns with our toys, for then we're good at sharing, and we're thoughtful girls and boys!
And of course, we shouldn't fight, and we shouldn't name-call, too.
If someone won't play nicely, we ask a grown-up what to do.
Now let's learn the magic words.
Here they are from one to four. If we say them, we're polite -so let's use them more and more!
Let's start by saying "please".
We should practise every day.
Whenever we ask for things, please" is what we need to say.
The next words to remember are very important, too. For anything we're given, we must always say "thank you.
Now butting in and pushing past -that's rude as rude can be! Instead, show how polite you are by saying "excuse me".
And here's the last magic word.
You might think it rather small, but when you can say "sorry", you're the kindest of them all!
Now we know all our manners, and we've nearly reached the end, but before we close this book, let's remind ourselves again...
Be friendly and be helpful. Share your toys and take your turn.
All these things show we're polite -- what's more, they're fun to learn!
And don't forget excuse me it's bad manners if we do.
Remember the magic words. Start with "please, then say "thank you.
Last we come to "sorry." This can be so hard to say.
But if it comes with a snuggle -- that makes it all okay!
Mommy and I are at the doctor's office today. 
I need a check up to make sure I am healthy and growing. My teddy's come for a check up, too!
This is the waiting room where we wait to see the nurse and doctor.
The waiting room has a play area with toys and books.
I take Teddy there, and read him a story while I wait for my check up
They called my name!
A nurse is seeing me first, then I'll meet the doctor. Mommy and Teddy are coming with me. We all go to the examining room.
We all go into the examining room where I'm having my check up.
The nurse takes my temperature, weighs me on a scale, and measures how much I have grown.
Then it's Teddy's turn. I'm taller and heavier than Teddy!
Next I meet Doctor Harrison. She says she wishes she had a Teddy like mine! She has a special tool with a little light for looking into my ears and down my throat.
Doctor Harrison examines Teddy first. His ears are fine! Then it's my turn. Mommy holds my hand while I sit very still. The special tool tickles my ears!
Then Doctor Harrison listens to my heartbeat with a stethoscope. She lets me try it first, then she uses it. Doctor Harrison hears my heart go boom, boom, boom!
Doctor Harrison puts the stethoscope on my back, too. She asks me to take deep breaths so that she can listen to my lungs and the sound of my breathing.
The round part feels cool on my skin.
At the end of my check up, Doctor Harrison tells me I am doing a great job growing up -- and so is Teddy! She talks to Mommy and me about what I can do to stay healthy.
Doctor Harrison says that since Teddy and I have been such good patients, we will both get a special sticker to take home! Hey, I like going to the doctor!