Maritime expo focuses on 5G in shipbuilding, navigation 
2019-12-04
Marintec China 2019, an international exhibition of the maritime industry, opened at the Shanghai New International Expo Center in the Pudong New Area yesterday.
The exhibition has been held every two years in Shanghai since 1979. This year, the exhibition highlights 5G technology in shipbuilding and navigation.
The exhibition, which will run through until Friday, has attracted exhibitors from 16 countries including Denmark, Germany and Norway.
Decarburization and digital transformation will be the focus of the maritime industry in next decade, said Remi Eriksen, group president and CEO of DNV GL, the world’s leading classification society and a recognized advisor for the maritime industry.
As for decarburization, Eriksen believes that gas, including liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas, is the best choice for carbon neutral fuels.
LNG and LPG as fuels can lower vessels’ air emissions, both in terms of greenhouse gases and other pollutants.
DNV GL developed new rules and class notation about LPG as fuels in the maritime field, as international regulations for such fuels are absent, according to Geir Dugstad, director of ship classification & technical of DNV GL.
Besides efforts on enabling green fuels, DNV GL also wants to tap into digitalization, as CEO Eriksen sees that digitalization as one of the shifts that will transform maritime industry.
Digitalization will help the maritime industry make operations more efficient, gain greater insights into fleet performance and automate processes.
Furthermore, industry leaders Kongsberg Maritime and Wartsila are displaying their latest auto navigation technologies.
Among the shipping projects on display is a deep-sea aquaculture vessel targeting high-quality and high-added-value fish and has an 80,000-cubic-meter aquaculture tank.
It relies on enclosed circulating water aquaculture to isolate invading pathogens, ensure safe aquaculture and lift aquaculture density. And it is a fish farm at sea but it can quickly move away from unsuitable ocean conditions.
