Amazon clears key hurdle in proposal for 2nd HQ 
2019-03-18
Amazon.com Inc’s planned second headquarters in northern Virginia has cleared a key test after local officials approved a proposed financial package worth an estimated US$51 million amid a small but vocal opposition.
Amazon in November picked National Landing, a site jointly owned by Arlington County and the city of Alexandria, just outside Washington, along with New York City for its so-called HQ2 or second headquarters. That followed a yearlong search in which hundreds of municipalities, ranging from Newark, New Jersey to Indianapolis, competed for the coveted tax-dollars and high-wage jobs the project promises.
Amazon in February abruptly scrapped plans to build part of its second headquarters in the New York borough of Queens after opposition from local leaders angered by incentives promised by state and city politicians.
The five-member Arlington County Board voted 5-0 on Saturday in favor of Amazon receiving the financial package after a seven-hour meeting held in a room filled with up to about 150 citizens and representatives from local unions and minority advocacy groups.
There was strong opposition from some residents and labor groups, many of whom chanted “shame” and waved signs with slogans including “Don’t be the opposite of Robin Hood,” “Amazon overworks and underpays,” and “Advocate for us and not Amazon.” One protester was escorted out of the meeting by police.
A few dozen protesters outside the county office chanted “The people united will never be defeated.”
Danny Candejas, an organizer for the coalition “For Us, Not Amazon,” which opposes the company’s move into the area, said: “We are fighting to make sure people who live here are not priced out by wealthy people.”
Some supporters in the meeting held up signs saying “vote yes” and “Amazon is prime for Arlington.”
A total of 112 people were registered to speak, an unusually high number for a local county meeting, forcing board chair Christian Dorsey to cut talking time to two minutes, from three for regular speakers and to four minutes, from five for representatives of organizations.
Many speakers fighting the headquarters opposed direct incentives, citing rising housing costs, the likely displacement of low-income families and lack of investment guarantees for affordable housing.
