‘Thought leader’ Bayer to unveil innovative offerings across life sciences ecosystem 
2019-11-07
Bayer, the thought leader in the life sciences sector, is showcasing its innovative portfolios in health care and agriculture at the second China International Import Expo. Located in the medical equipment and health-care pavilion, Bayer will make full use of the platform provided by the CIIE to display its innovations, range of products, as well as its advanced solutions through its three business divisions — pharmaceuticals, consumer health and crop science.
“Bayer is proud of its long history in China. Bayer commits to contributing to China’s sustainable development,” says Wei Jiang, member of the Executive Committee & President of Bayer Pharmaceuticals China/APAC Region, and President of Bayer Group China Region. “Bayer is honored to participate again in CIIE this year. The CIIE will create new opportunities for companies from various countries and regions to meet the needs of Chinese people and to further foster global trade. ”
“Bayer is privileged to have the opportunity to contribute to the transformational growth of China in the past 40 years since the reform begun. Bayer will continue to focus on delivering “science for better life” by bringing innovative and quality products and services to China in the areas of health care and nutrition.” Wei added.
With China among the fastest-growing markets in the world, Bayer has also further stepped up its commitment and investment in the region.
Over the years Bayer has been accumulating innovative ideas and practices tailored to the local market and is committed to improving the wellbeing of Chinese people.
Bayer pharmaceuticals will showcase its innovative solutions in cancer treatment and chronic disease management during the expo.
Bayer is committed to delivering science for a better life by advancing a portfolio of innovative treatments on oncology therapy. Larotrectinib, the first therapy with a tumor-agnostic indication, has already received regulatory approval in the US, EU, Brazil and Canada. It represents a meaningful advancement in the fight against cancer, as it treats the oncogenic driver that causes tumors to spread and grow, rather than just where the tumor originates in the body.
Its chronic disease management solutions consist of many preventive measures, innovative treatments and management concepts, including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, which are common symptoms among cardiovascular patients. 
In the meantime, the company has innovative solutions for diabetic complications, including visual impairment due to DME, and diabetic kidney disease.
Bayer continues focusing on health care, improving the quality of life with innovative products and services, and contributing to the aspirations of the “Healthy China” blueprint.
In recent years, China has escalated more attention to improving citizens’ health awareness and has declared a goal of “striving to secure people’s health in all aspects of the full life cycle.”
The State Council’s Healthy China 2030 blueprint clearly declares that it is necessary to strengthen personal health in the development of the self-care business and is committed to promoting the public’s awareness of self-care and improving people’s quality of life through healthy lifestyles.
Bayer is constantly responding to the call for sustainable development and brings its cutting-edge business models, such as cross-border e-commerce. Elevit/Menevit, One A Day, Canesten, Citracal, Priorin and Bepanthen are among the cross-border e-commerce brands of Bayer consumer health that will be showcased at the second CIIE. 
Bayer has followed the latest market trends as health care and shopping online for self-care products are becoming prevalent among consumers in recent years. 
At the same time, Bayer is also committed to continuous innovation in e-commerce. Through the cross-border e-commerce business, Bayer offers more options for Chinese consumers to acquire its trusted health products more efficiently. 
Bayer believes the key to living a better life is giving people the power to transform their everyday health. With a family self-care tool kit, it will also bring the concept of self-care “empowering the transformation of everyday health” to the CIIE, including the brands like Talcid chewing tablet for treating stomach acidity, scalp cleansing shampoo and many other over-the-counter consumer health products. 
Crop Science is also an important pillar for Bayer’s presence at the CIIE this year.  The company is focusing on technological innovation to help tackle in a sustainable way the challenges facing the agricultural sector for the benefit of farmers, consumers and the planet. 
China has prioritized agricultural and rural area development. The No.1 document released by the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council in February said China will adjust and optimize the agricultural structure in agricultural production and promote the shift from agricultural production guidance to quality improvement. 
Bayer Crop Science has dedicated its efforts to bringing innovative products and technology to China, supporting Chinese growers with enhanced efficiency and quality.
Bayer’s pesticides and specific solutions for rice, corn, wheat, fruit and vegetables will be on show at the CIIE, aimed at helping farmers improve fertilizer utilization and increase yield as well as ensure quality.
A comprehensive combination of products and solutions, new digital technologies and services including crop protection solutions and safe pesticide application technologies will also be exhibited at the second CIIE.
Bayer is increasing productivity with digital tools through helping farmers with millions of hectares across the world the leading platform in the digital agricultural space. 
Expo visitors will get a chance to experience Bayer’s FieldView platform which is available in the US, Canada, Brazil, Argentina and 15 countries in Europe, on more than 24.3 million paid hectares globally. 
Advanced digital solutions of Rodent Management System from Environmental Science and SRD Smart Compare from Animal Health, as part of Bayer Crop Science Division, will also be demonstrated.
